Clients Status Tab

The Clients tab shows information about clients that have been using
the cluster. A wide variety of statistics can be shown, filtered by
the control choices in the top of the table view.


Leave the Auto-refresh option selected to continually update the data
shown in the table.

As with other tables, you can sort the data by column headings. (Note
that there is sometimes a lag of about one second to apply the sort
after a heading was clicked.)

Filtering the Client List

Drop-down menu selectors at the top left of the clients tab control
the data in the table. The

Source

 (1),

Show

 (2), and

Type

 (3) options determine which clients and what statistics are shown.

"Source" Options

The Source selector (labeled 1 in the screenshot above) determines the
scope of the clients shown.

You can select any of the cluster's vservers, core filers, and nodes.

If a vserver is selected, clients attached to that vserver are listed.

If a core filer is selected, clients attached to that core filer
through the Avere cluster are listed.

If a node is selected, clients connecting through that node are
listed.

"Show" Options

After selecting the source, you can select which subset of clients to
view by using the Show control (2).

The options in the Show selector depend on what is selected in the
Source setting.

Options for a VServer Source

These options appear on the Show menu when a vserver is selected on
the Source menu.

Active Clients – This filter shows only clients that are currently
connected to the cluster through this vserver. (Clients with an
established TCP connection are considered to be active.)  Statistics
shown in this view:  Client Address – The client's IP address  FXT
Node – The FXT node through which the client accesses the cluster
Avere Address – The address on the Avere cluster to which the client
connects  Number of connections (if the same client has more than one
active connection to this vserver)  Table of clients with a vserver
source and "active clients" selected

VServer Connection Information – This filter shows active clients for
the vserver, but also includes statistics about how the client is
connected to the vserver.  Statistics shown in this view:  FXT Node –
The FXT node through which the client accesses the cluster  Client
Address – The client's IP address  Avere Address – The address on the
Avere cluster to which the client connects  Protocol – The connection
protocol (usually tcp)  Connection Type – The type of connection
between the client and the vserver (usually nfs_frontend for a client-
vserver connection)

Hot Clients – If the Collect 'Hot' Information checkbox is selected,
this view shows data about the most active clients connected to the
vserver.  Read Hot Clients Reporting for a more complete discussion of
this feature.  Statistics shown in this view:  Client Address  Type
Avere Address  FXT Node  Activity  Rate

Options for a Core Filer Source

One option appears on the Show menu when a core filer is selected on
the Source menu:

Core Filer Connection Information – This filter shows active clients
that are connected to the selected core filer through the Avere
cluster.  Statistics shown in this view:  FXT Node – The FXT node
through which the client accesses the cluster  Client Address – The
client's IP address  Avere Address – The address on the Avere cluster
to which the client connects  Protocol – The connection protocol
(usually tcp)  Connection Type – The type of connection between the
core filer and the client. The value varies, but common values for a
hardware (NAS) core filer include nfs_backend, nlm_backend, or
mount_backend. With a cloud core filer, the connection type is
typically s3_https_backend or s3_http_backend.  Table showing core
filer connection information for clients

Options for a Cluster Node Source

These options appear on the Show menu when a cluster node is selected
on the Source menu:

Active Clients – Shows the clients actively using the cluster through
this node. (Clients with an established TCP connection are considered
to be active.)  Statistics shown in this view:  Client Address – The
client's IP address  VServer – The vserver through which the client
connects  Avere Address – The address on the Avere cluster to which
the client connects  Table showing active clients attached to one
cluster node

VServer Connection Information – Shows specifics about how the active
clients are connected to the cluster.  Statistics shown in this view:
VServer – The vserver through which the client connects  Client
Address – The client's IP address  Avere Address – The address on the
Avere cluster to which the client connects  Protocol – The connection
protocol (usually tcp)  Connection Type – The type of connection
between the client and the vserver (usually nfs_frontend).

Core Filer Connection Information – Shows specifics about client
connections to the core filers being used through this cluster node.
Each client might have multiple connections to the core filer, so it
is possible to have hundreds of connections in this table.  Statistics
shown in this view:  Core Filer – The core filer that the client is
using  Client Address – The client's IP address  Avere Address – The
address on the Avere cluster to which the client connects  Protocol –
The connection protocol (usually tcp)  Connection Type – The type of
connection between the client and the core filer. For a hardware (NAS)
core filer, typical values are nfs_backend, nlm_backend, or
mount_backend; a cloud core filer frequently has the connection type
s3_https_backend or s3_http_backend.

"Type" Options

The Type selector (3) allows you to filter clients by their connection
protocol, SMB or NFS. Currently, this selector is active only for the
vserver > hot clients view, described below in

Hot Clients Reporting

.

Hot Clients Reporting

The Hot Clients view shows usage and activity rate statistics for
client machines that are the heaviest users of the Avere cluster.

When a vserver is selected as the Source on the clients tab, you can
enable or disable hot client data collection and show information
about the most active clients in the table.

Enabling Data Collection

To show hot clients information, you must turn on data collection for
client activity. You can click the checkbox next to Collect 'Hot'
Information on the clients tab to enable collection with default
values. (This box can only be changed if a vserver source is
selected.)

To change the data collection settings, click the

Details link

 to go to the VServer Details settings page, as described below.

Note: Collecting hot client information uses CPU and memory
  resources on the cluster nodes. If you are not actively using this
  information, you can leave data collection disabled to improve
  cluster performance.

Details Link

Clicking the Details link loads the VServer Details settings page,
where you can change settings for collecting hot client information.
Options include:

Enable or disable hot client data collection

Set the maximum number of hot clients to track per cluster node

Set the polling period for gathering client data

Read

VServer > VServer Details

 in the Avere OS

Configuration Guide

 for more information.

Showing Hot Clients

To see the most active clients, select a vserver from the Source menu
and then select Hot Clients from the Show menu.

Hot Client Statistics


The hot clients display shows standard client information (node,
client address, and Avere cluster address), plus Type, Activity, and
Rate.

Client Address
   The client's IP address

Type
   The client type, either SMB or NFS. You can filter by type in the
   hot clients view – use the Type selector above the table.

   The Type selector is active only when Hot Clients is selected in
   the Show control.


FXT Node
   The FXT node through which the client accesses the cluster

Avere Address
   The address on the Avere cluster to which the client connects

Activity
   The total number of operations sent from the client since the
   cluster started.

   This number is re-read at the polling interval, and at that time a
   client might be removed from the hot clients list if it is not one
   of the most active clients. (The number of hot clients for each
   node is configurable and defaults to 10.)

   The activity statistic is reset if the cluster restarts.

Rate
   The current number of operations per second from this client. This
   value is continuously recalculated; it does not depend on the
   polling interval.

Although the polling interval does not affect the rate and activity
statistics, it is used to determine the top

n

 most active clients. When a new poll is done, a client might drop off
the hot clients list or be added based on its Activity statistic.

The polling interval and the number of hot clients to track are
configured on the VServer Details settings page. (Read

VServer > VServer Details

 in the Avere OS

Configuration Guide

 for more information.)
