Dashboard Status Tabs

This section describes the status table that appears in the middle of
the Avere Control Panel dashboard. The status table is tabbed; click a
tab to view information in that section.

The table includes the following pages:

Conditions

Alerts

VServers

Core Filers

Nodes

Clients

Hot Files

Cache

Conditions and Alerts

The Conditions tab and the Alerts tab show the status and error
notifications for the cluster. Read

Monitoring Conditions and Alerts

 for complete details about the information on these status tabs.

VServers

The VServers tab in the dashboard status bar gives basic information
about each vserver in the cluster. (Read

Creating and Working with VServers

 in the in the Avere OS Configuration Guide for basic information
about cluster vservers.)


The VServers tab shows the following information:

Name – The name of each vserver.  Click on the name to go to the
vserver's VServer Details page on the Settings tab. (This settings
page is described in more detail in VServer > VServer Details in the
Avere OS Configuration Guide.)

Operation State – Whether the vserver is up or down.  Other statuses
can be seen if the system is restarting or rebalancing after a node
has failed. (Examples include "node is not responding", "hardware
fault", "subprocess reset", "core filer unreachable", and "reduced
performance".) These messages typically include links to a related
condition notification, and as the cluster works through resolving the
interruption, the messages should progress until the state returns to
"up".

Admin State – The administrative state shows the vserver's cluster
status:  Online: Normal operational status, available to the cluster
Removing: The vserver is in the process of being removed from the
cluster  Removed: The vserver was previously recognized by the
cluster, but has been removed from the cluster's configuration
Suspended: The vserver is recognized by the cluster but unavailable  [
xxx xml-rpc vserver.get help says this state is named "offline" but it
is actually "suspended" – checked by CC xxx ]  Flushing: The vserver
is transferring data from the cache to a core filer

Client Facing IPs – The IP address range available to client machines
from this vserver.

Namespace – Displays the type of namespace the vserver uses: Global
(the default) or Simple (a legacy configuration). Read Using a Global
Namespace in the Avere OS Configuration Guide to learn more.

Core Filers – Lists the core filers associated with the vserver.
Click the name of a core filer to go to its Core Filer Details page,
described in Core Filer > Core Filer Details in the Avere OS
Configuration Guide.

Hot Clients – Displays Yes if this vserver is configured to record
information about clients that are creating a greater than average
load. You can view hot clients information in the Clients tab.

Core Filers

The cluster's core filers are shown on the Core Filers status tab.


The tab shows the following information for each core filer:

Name – The name of this core filer.  Click the name to go to the core
filer’s Core Filer Details page on the Settings tab. (Read Core Filer
> Core Filer Details in the Avere OS Configuration Guide to learn
more.)

Admin State – The administrative state of the core filer, any of the
following values:  Online: The core filer is available to the cluster.
Removing: The core filer is in the process of being removed from the
cluster.  Removed: The core filer was previously recognized by the
cluster, but has been removed from the cluster configuration.
Invalidating: The core filer is removing all data from the cache.
Suspended: The core filer is not available to the cluster, but is
still recognized by the cluster.  Flushing: The cluster is
transferring information from the cache to the core filer.

Cache Policy – The cache policy associated with each core filer. You
can click on the policy link to go to the core filer’s Cache Policy
page, further described in Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies in the
Avere OS Settings Guide.

Local Dirs – Whether or not the cluster can create directories on the
core filer. This is defined in the Cache Policy page on the Settings
tab, further described in Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies in the
Avere OS Settings Guide.  Local Directories must be enabled for cloud
core filers, and in order to use FlashMove or FlashMirror. Additional
information is included in the Avere OS Settings Guide – read Cache
Policy Settings - Basic Options.  change to Local Directories
<local_directories_nh> when that file gets republished in the settings
guide

Network Name – The host name or the IP address of the core filer.

Modified Data – Number and age of files not yet written back to the
core filer. (This is sometimes known as "dirty data".) The cache can
hold modified data only for core filers whose cache policy includes
the Read/Write caching mode.

VServers – Lists the vservers associated with this core filer.  If no
vservers are listed, then the core filer has been added to the cluster
but not mapped to a junction or otherwise associated with a vserver.
Click a vserver name to open the VServer Details page. (Read VServer >
VServer Details in the Avere OS Configuration Guide for more
information.)

Nodes

The cluster's FXT nodes are shown in the Nodes status tab.


The following information is shown:

Name – The node name.  Click the name to go to this node's Node
Details page. (The Node Details page is part of the Settings tab but
is not included in the side menus in that section.) Read Node Details
in the Avere OS Configuration Guide for more information.

Model – The hardware type, or the VM instance type if the node is a
vFXT.

State – Whether the node is up, and how long it has been running.

Client IPs – Client IP addresses currently located on the node.
Addresses are grouped under the names of their vservers.

CPU – Approximate CPU usage, displayed as a percentage of capacity.

Performance – A summary of the node's performance. Statistics are
given for two time ranges: Instant is the node's current performance,
and 1 m avg is its performance averaged over the previous minute.
Statistics included are:  Number of operations per second. These can
be read, write, or metadata management operations.  Hit rate: The
percentage of client requests being serviced by the node's cache,
without needing to be forwarded to the core filer.  Latency between a
client and the node, measured in milliseconds.

Drive Performance – Performance values for the disk drives in this
node. This figure includes all of the node's drives. Like node
performance, the drive performance figures give performance
information in operations per second for the current instant and
averaged over the previous minute.

Clients

The Clients tab shows information about clients currently active on
the cluster.

The options in the Source selector change what information is shown in
the table. For example, if you choose a vserver in Source, only
clients connected to that vserver appear in the table.


You can show clients filtered by vserver, by core filer, or by node.

If you choose a vserver that has hot clients data collection enabled,
you can view hot clients (clients that are making the most requests).

Because the information on the Clients status tab is complicated, it
is included in a separate chapter. Read

Clients Status Tab

 to learn more.

Hot Files

A hot file is a file associated with a high number of operations
relative to other files. (Operations include file reads or writes and
metadata updates.) The number of operations typically indicates that
the file is in heavy use.

The Hot Files status tab shows the files with the most operations.


Use the Select By drop-down list to select the attribute to use for
selecting hot files.


Options include the following:

Ops – Total operations per second performed on each file.

Bytes Read/Written – The number of bytes processed per second on each
file. When this option is selected, the number of bytes read and
written are listed for each file, and you can sort the table by these
values.

Dir Updates – The number of directory updates and other metadata
operations per second performed on each file.

Check the Cluster-wide view checkbox if you want to show hot files
over the entire cluster instead of by node. Although hot files are
determined by core filer (that is, they are the most active files on
their core filer), the standard view lists them by the cluster node
that served them. If the same file is served from multiple nodes, the
standard view will show multiple rows for that one file; the cluster-
wide view shows one row for that file and aggregates all the times it
was served by all nodes.

The Auto-refresh checkbox causes the display to update automatically
when selected.

Cache

The Cache status tab gives details about the available space and
current cache utilization on the cluster.


The Avere cluster allocates cache space based on a number of factors,
including the number of nodes in the cluster and the node's
obligations to store data for a High Availability (HA) partner.

The storage space available in each node is divided into read caching
space and write caching space. For a core filer without write caching,
no space is allocated to writes. The cluster automatically sets the
percentage of the storage that can be used for caching writes
(sometimes called "dirty data").

Read/Write caching is controlled by core filer cache policies – read

Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide to learn more.

When the node cache reaches its maximum used space value, the system
removes least-used files from the cache to make room for new files.
Data is written back to the core filer as needed. (This process is
called

flushing

 the cache.) Note that the maximum used space value might be less than
the amount of free space shown because of HA mirroring and other
technical requirements.

The dashboard status table can show cache information organized by
cluster node (as in the screenshot above) or by core filer. Click the
Per-Filer or Per-Node sub-tabs to switch the view.

Each view includes tools for searching and for switching the units
shown.

Click the drop-down menu labeled Units to choose the unit size shown
in the table. Options range from 16K blocks to terabytes.

Enter text in the Search field to show only table rows that include
that text. Clear the search box to show all rows.

Node View

Cache space in the Avere cluster is split among all of the cluster's
nodes. Typically, each node hosts an equal portion of the cache space
designated for one core filer.

The Per-Node view shows the cache space reserved for a particular core
filer on a particular node. You can sort by the Node and Core Filer
columns depending on whether you want to see one node's cache space
grouped together or one core filer's cache space together.

You also can use the Search field at the top of the table to filter by
node or by core filer.


When the table is sorted by node (as in the screenshot above), cache
totals are displayed for each node. When sorted by core filer, the
core filer totals are displayed.

The Allocated for Reads and Allocated for Writes columns show the
total space reserved for each type of caching on the specified node
for the specified core filer. The other columns break down the space
into Used and Free space.

Clicking a core filer name loads its Core Filer Details settings page.
Clicking a node name loads its Node Details settings page. These pages
are described in detail in the Avere OS Configuration Guide – read

Core Filer > Core Filer Details

 and

Node Details

.

Core Filer View

The Per-Filer table gives a cluster-wide view of cache space. The
values shown for each core filer are the sum of space allocated on all
of the cluster's nodes to cache files from that core filer.


The Available for Reads and Available for Writes columns show the
cluster's total space reserved for each type of caching for the
specified core filer. The other columns break down the space into Used
and Free space.

Clicking a core filer name loads its Core Filer Details settings page.
This page is described in detail in

Core Filer > Core Filer Details

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide.
