Viewing System Performance

The graph in the center of the Dashboard page gives a visual overview
of the Avere cluster's performance.


The screenshot above shows a performance graph with its default
settings. You can change the settings to focus on what you want to
see.

Chart controls are hidden by default; click the triangular control at
the left of the Chart Controls label to open this panel.

The controls give you the following options for customizing the
visualization:

The Stats menu sets the type of statistic (rate, throughput, or
latency). Read Choosing the Statistics to Display for details.

The Source menu determines which part of the cluster to include – for
example, a particular node or vserver, or the entire cluster. Read
Statistics Source Options for details.

The Period menu controls the time frame shown on the chart – values
range from five minutes (the default) to the past week, or you can set
a custom time period. Read Setting the Time Range for more.

Checkboxes let you show or hide individual statistics in the chart.
These items are different depending on which statistic you selected –
for example, when displaying operations per second you can choose
which types of operations to graph. Read below for details:  Graphing
Options for Ops/Second  Graphing Options for Throughput  Graphing
Options for Latency  Two sets of checkboxes appear – the upper set
controls the statistics display for the item selected in Source and
the lower set displays the same statistics at the cluster level. This
arrangement allows you to display the same statistic for the chosen
component (for example, one node or one core filer) and also for the
cluster as a whole. Read Comparison Statistics for an example.

You can customize the display colors assigned to each item.

You can turn auto-refresh off or on.

There also is a link to

view a CSV version

 of the data on the graph.

Choosing the Statistics to Display

Use the Stats drop-down menu to select the statistic displayed on the
chart.


Choices include:

Ops/Second – Shows the number of operations the selected source
(cluster, vserver, node, or core filer) is making each second.  The
options for this selection are described in Graphing Options for
Ops/Second.

Throughput – Shows how much data is being successfully transferred for
the selected source. Read Graphing Options for Throughput to learn
more.

Latency – Shows delay in the system. See Graphing Options for Latency
for more information.

Graphing Options for Ops/Second

When displaying operations per second, you can choose to show a
variety of operations on the graph.


Options include:

Client Ops – Total operations exchanged between clients and the Avere
cluster.

Sync Core Filer Ops – Synchronous operations from the cluster to the
core filer.

Async Core Filer Ops – Asynchronous operations from the cluster to the
core filer.

Data Mgmt Move Ops – During a FlashMove or FlashMirror job, this
statistic tracks operations that are part of copying data from the
source core filer to the destination core filer.

Data Mgmt Mirror Ops – Operations done as part of a FlashMirror job to
write client changes to both the primary and mirror destination.

Data Mgmt Flexible Mirror Ops – Operations done as part of re-
synchronizing  a FlashMirror job after data was not written to both
the primary and mirror destination (for example, if one of the volumes
became unreachable). These operations only appear for FlashMirror jobs
that use a flexible synchronization policy; a strict synchronization
policy does not allow the volumes to go out of sync.  Additional
information about FlashMirror and synchronization policies is included
in the FlashMirror In Depth section of the Avere OS Data Management
Guide.

Graphing Options for Throughput

Throughput shows the amount of data being successfully communicated
over the cluster's network connections.

Throughput statistics tell you how well communication is flowing among
the clients, the cluster, and the core filers.


The chart displays how many bytes of data are being transferred. You
can customize the settings to show data from specific types of
operations.

The Throughput chart can graph the amount of data transferred in any
or all of these categories:

Client Read – Data involved in read operations from clients to the
cluster.

Read-ahead – Data from read-ahead operations. Read-ahead operations
are reads from the cluster to its core filers in anticipation of
client requests. If the system predicts that a client will request
content that is not currently in the cache, it can fetch the content
from the core filer before the client requests it. Requesting data
ahead of time speeds up data access for client requests.

Fill from Core Filer – Data transferred in read operations from the
cluster to a core filer. These operations occur when clients request
access to data that is not already cached on the cluster nodes.

Node-to-node Fill – Data from read operations between cluster nodes.
Avere OS  distributes data across the cluster to optimize performance
and balance load.

Node-to-node Write – Data transferred in write operations between
cluster nodes. These operations are most frequently used to direct
client-changed data to the appropriate node. This type of operation is
most often seen on systems with the Always Forward feature enabled.

Client Write – Data written from clients to the cluster.

Sync Write to Core Filer – Data written synchronously from the cluster
to a core filer. Synchronous write operations are used when a client
changes data and the core filer does not have write caching enabled.
When a core filer's caching mode is set to Read, the cluster sends
write operations from clients directly to the core filer. (Caching
mode is part of a Cache Policy – read Core Filer > Manage Cache
Policies in the Avere OS Settings Guide for more information.)

Async Write to Core Filer – Data transferred in asynchronous write
operations from the cluster to a core filer. Asynchronous write
operations are used with core filers that have read/write caching set
in their cache policies. Read Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies in
the Avere OS Settings Guide for more information.

Data Mgmt Move Read – Data read from the source core filer when
synchronizing the source and destination core filers in a FlashMove or
FlashMirror job.

Data Mgmt Move Write – Data written to the destination core filer when
synchronizing the source and destination core filers in a FlashMove or
FlashMirror job.

Data Mgmt Mirror Write – Data from client write operations that was
written to both the source and destination core filer in a FlashMove
or FlashMirror job.

Data Mgmt Flexible Mirror Write – Data written while resynchronizing a
source and destination core filer (for example, after one volume
became unreachable). This statistic appears only for FlashMirror jobs
that use a flexible synchronization policy; the strict synchronization
policy does not allow the volumes to go out of sync.  BBarbisch text:
If you chose the Flexible mirror synchronization policy for your
FlashMirror job, then your FlashMirror job may go out-of-sync if the
destination core filer is temporarily unavailable. This option
represents the writes required in order to recopy the data from the
source core filer to the destination core filer in order to get the
out-of-sync data back in sync.  Read the FlashMirror In Depth section
of the Avere OS Data Management Guide for more information about
FlashMirror and synchronization policies.

Graphing Options for Latency

Latency represents the lag time between when an operation is requested
and when it begins to be fulfilled. Latency can be caused by network
communication time, hardware operational speed, and other factors.

The chart shows latency in units of microseconds per operation.


Choose Latency to graph any of the following statistics:

Client-facing Latency – Latency for operations between clients and the
cluster.

NFS Filer Latency – Latency for operations between the cluster and a
hardware NAS core filer.

Cloud Filer Latency – Latency for operations between the cluster and a
cloud object store.

Statistics Source Options

Use the Source drop-down list to choose the element of the system to
include on the graph.

Options include:

   Cluster Wide for combined statistics for all vservers, core filers,
   and nodes in the cluster.

   VServers > [vserver_name] for statistics from the selected virtual
   server.

   Core Filer > [core_filer_name] for statistics from the selected
   core filer.

   Nodes > [node_name] for statistics from the selected node.

Comparison Statistics

If you are viewing statistics for a component of the cluster – for
example, you chose a particular node in the Source selector – you can
also show the cluster's statistics on the same chart.

This feature allows you to compare performance between the cluster and
the individual cluster element selected.

A second set of checkboxes with the label Cluster Wide Comparison Data
appears below the main options. Select the statistics that you want to
show.


The screenshot above shows the client operations per second for a
particular node in dark blue and the client operations per second for
the cluster as a whole in light blue. The most drastic difference
between the two curve shapes occurs just left of the center of the
chart, where the cluster operations per second forms a tall peak, but
the node's curve is much flatter. This difference might indicate that
a period of high demand on the cluster was handled by other nodes.

Disabling Auto-Refresh

By default, the chart updates automatically. The visualization updates
every 30 seconds for users with read-only access to the Avere Control
Panel, and every 10 seconds for users with read/write access.

To disable automatic updating, clear the Auto-refresh chart checkbox,
which appears at the bottom right of the chart controls section.

You can disable and re-enable it at any time.

Customizing Graph Colors

You can change the color shown for a statistic by clicking the colored
square next to the statistic's name in the Chart Controls area. A
color chooser pops up, and you can click on a new color to select it.


If you want to close the color selector without changing the color,
click a blank area in the Chart Controls panel.

Setting the Time Range

The Period drop-down list lets you customize the time period over
which to display statistics. Choices range from the last five minutes
to the last seven days, or you can set a customized time range for
specific dates and times.


Setting a Custom Time Range

To set a custom time range:

On the Period list, select Date/Time.  A time range will appear below
the selection menus.

Click the start date on the time range and use the pop-up control to
select the day and time at the beginning of the range you want. Click
the Submit button.  Clicking the start date under the Stats control
pops up a calendar day and date selector

Repeat the process to customize the end date and time.

After you click Submit, the graph updates with data from the selected
range. Using a custom time range automatically disables the chart's
automatic refresh option.

Note that data might not be available for the entire range you have
selected. Avere OS keeps only seven full days of statistics; data
beyond that range is purged from the system and cannot be displayed in
the dashboard. (Consider a third-party solution if you want to examine
statistics over a longer time period.) Also, a few statistics are
automatically reset by a system restart, so if the date range includes
a restart these values will only represent the period after the
restart.

Viewing the Dataset

You can view and save the currently displayed set of statistics in
comma-separated value (CSV) format.

Click the View Dataset link that appears at the bottom left of the
Chart Controls area. A separate browser window or tab opens with the
CSV-formatted statistics displayed in text. Use your browser’s “Save
As” function to save the statistics to a file.
