Monitoring Conditions and Alerts

Conditions and alerts are displayed in the Avere Control Panel
dashboard. These notifications give  information about unusual
behavior in the cluster. They include a description of the situation,
the severity of the issue (if applicable), and can include suggestions
for how to resolve the situation.


The status table at the bottom of the dashboard page includes a tab
labeled Conditions and a tab labeled Alerts. The tab header also shows
the number of active notifications of that type.

Within each tab, the newest notification is displayed at the top,
followed by any others in reverse chronological order.

Conditions versus Alerts

There are two main types of notifications,

conditions

 and

alerts

.

A condition is given for an ongoing situation – for example,
interrupted connectivity to a core filer. Conditions frequently
require intervention from the cluster administrator to be resolved.
Conditions remain visible on the dashboard until the situation is
resolved, and then they clear automatically. You can hide a condition
from being displayed on the dashboard, but you cannot easily dismiss
it while the underlying cause continues.

An alert is given for a transient situation that has occurred. For
example, changing the software image or aborting a FlashMirror® job
generates an alert.  Alerts remain visible until you dismiss them.

The

Conditions

 and

Alerts

 sections below include more information about each of these
notification types and how to manage them.

Severity Color Coding

The Avere Control Panel uses color in dashboard notifications to
indicate the seriousness of system issues.

Red indicates a problem that can stop the cluster from serving client
requests, interfere with data integrity, or affect other essential
functions. These issues should be addressed urgently.

Yellow indicates a situation that might become a problem if it
continues. These issues should be evaluated and addressed to make sure
they do not become serious.

Colorless notifications are used for informational messages that do
not indicate an imminent risk of disruption.

Color coding affects the notification at the top of the Avere Control
Panel page and is indicated in the status table on the dashboard.

Conditions can be coded red or yellow. Alerts are usually yellow or
uncolored.


Conditions

When the Avere cluster has an active error condition, a message
appears in the top margin of the Avere Control Panel. The error
message can be seen on each page in the control panel.

The screenshot below shows a page in the Settings section of the
control panel with a visible system error message at the top.


On the Dashboard page, active conditions are listed individually in
the dashboard Conditions tab of the status table.


This screenshot from a test cluster shows system errors related to an
inaccessible core filer.

Conditions are listed in reverse chronological order (the newest
notification is at the top). At the left of the notification's
timestamp, a colored box appears that represents the severity of the
issue.

The main body of the table includes a description of the issue.
Depending on the situation, some condition notifications include
links.

A More Details link shows additional text without leaving the
Conditions table.

Some messages also include links to suggested actions that might
resolve the situation; those links can have various actions (for
example, opening a Settings page or aborting a snapshot).

Be sure to read the message text carefully before clicking those
links.

If you need help understanding a message or resolving the issue,
contact Avere Global Services.

Evaluating Conditions

A condition notification does not necessarily mean that there's
something wrong with the Avere cluster. For example, when doing a
software upgrade, it is normal to see multiple conditions as nodes are
updated and rebooted. All of these conditions should clear on their
own.

Also, occasionally a condition might fail to clear on its own. If you
suspect a condition on your dashboard is no longer valid, you can

hide or clear it

.

Short-duration errors do not raise conditions; only situations that
persist for a minute or longer result in a condition notification.

Hiding Conditions

You cannot dismiss an individual condition (unlike alerts); they must
resolve themselves or be resolved by an administrator before they
clear from the list of active conditions. However, you can

hide

 conditions so that they are not listed on the main tab.

You might want to hide a condition if it's related to a problem with a
long-term solution. For example, if an FXT node has a failed disk and
you are waiting for replacement hardware, you might want to hide the
condition that notifies you that the node is operating without the
failed drive.

A hidden condition is not listed on the Dashboard table.

If you hide all conditions, the System Error message in the top of the
Avere Control Panel also disappears.

To hide one or more conditions, do one of the following:

To hide specific conditions, click the checkbox at the left of the
timestamp for each condition that you want to hide. Then click the
Hide button. The selected conditions are removed from the list in the
Conditions tab.

To hide current and future instances of the visible conditions, select
the checkbox at the left of the timestamp for each condition that you
want to hide. Then click the button labeled Hide All Occurrences.
Depending on the type of condition, a dialog might ask you to clarify
the kind of future occurrences you want to hide.  For example, the
screenshot below shows the confirmation dialog that appears when
hiding all occurrences of a notice about a suspended vserver.  Dialog
after selecting a condition and clicking Hide All Occurrences  A menu
lets you select which vserver's conditions will be hidden, or to hide
all such instances.  Drop-down menu to select 'All' or 'vserver1' or
'vserver2'

Viewing or Unhiding Conditions

You can view hidden conditions by clicking the Show Hidden button on
the Conditions tab. You can discontinue hiding conditions by using the
Hidden Alerts settings page. Read

Unhiding Conditions and Canceling Auto-Dismiss

 for details.

Clearing All Conditions

If necessary, you can reset all condition warnings from the System
Maintenance settings page.

Note: Conditions provide valuable information about your cluster’s
  performance. Clearing unresolved conditions is recommended only in
  rare situations.

If you need to clear all conditions for your cluster, navigate to the
Settings > Administration > System Maintenance page. Under the Cluster
Services heading, there is a button labeled Clear all conditions.
Click it to reset all active conditions.

You cannot clear individual conditions.

Alerts

The Alerts tab shows system notifications.

The most recent alert is at the top of the list. Some alerts are
highlighted with bold text – typically because they are new since the
last page view or because of higher severity.


Unlike conditions, alerts do not automatically clear from the list.
You must clear them manually, or use Auto Dismiss to configure the
Avere Control Panel to automatically clear alerts from certain system
elements. Read

Auto Dismiss

 for instructions.

Dismissing Alerts

To remove an alert from the list, select its checkbox and click the
Dismiss button.

The checkbox is replaced with the status message "dismissed" for a few
seconds, then the display refreshes without the dismissed alert.

Use the Select all button to act on all listed alerts. The  Deselect
all button cancels the selection.

You also can configure automatic dismissal for certain categories of
alerts with the

Auto Dismiss

 function.

Auto Dismiss

The Auto Dismiss function lets you automatically clear alerts. You can
use this to help filter out alerts for known issues in your system or
notifications that are not important to your workflow.

Automatically dismissed alerts can be viewed in the Alert History
page.

To configure automatic dismissal:

Select one or more alerts from the list.  Selecting an alert for auto
dismiss

From the Alerts tab, choose Auto Dismiss.  An “Auto Dismiss” window
appears. Depending on the type of alert selected, additional options
(like node selection) might be included in this dialog.  Confirm
dialog for auto dismiss

Click Auto Dismiss to automatically dismiss similar alerts. Click
Cancel if you do not want to take this action.

To remove alert types from auto-dismissal, choose Manage Auto Dismiss.
You will be taken to the same page that allows you to unhide
conditions, described in

Unhiding Conditions and Canceling Auto-Dismiss

.

Unhiding Conditions and Canceling Auto-Dismiss

To display hidden conditions, or to change auto dismiss settings for
alerts, load the Hidden Alerts settings page.

Do one of the following:  From the Conditions tab, choose Manage
Hidden.  From the Alerts tab, choose Manage Auto Dismiss.  This opens
the Hidden Alerts page on the Settings tab,  where you can select
individual conditions and alerts.  The Hidden Alerts page in Settings
> Administration

Click the checkboxes for any of the conditions or alerts you want to
remove.

Choose Unhide/Stop Auto Dismissing.

When the dashboard display refreshes, the selected conditions will
appear on the Conditions tab, and selected alerts will no longer be
automatically dismissed.

Read more about the Hidden Alerts page in the Avere OS Configuration
Guide:

Administration > Hidden Alerts

.

Viewing Condition and Alert History

To view a list of resolved and dismissed conditions and alerts, choose
Alert History from the Alerts tab.

You are taken to the Alert History page.


Resolved conditions and dismissed alerts are kept on the Alert History
page until the history buffer is full, at which point the oldest
notifications are purged to make room for new conditions and alerts.

The number of conditions and alerts the history buffer can hold varies
by notification type, length, and other factors.

Click the Dashboard tab header or use your browser's back button to
return to the dashboard.

Remote Monitoring

You can configure a subset of system alerts to be sent by email or to
a remote syslog server. Read

Cluster > Monitoring

 in the Avere OS Configuration Guide to learn how.
