Monitoring the Cluster with the Avere Control Panel Dashboard

Use the Dashboard tab in the Avere Control Panel to monitor how well a
cluster is operating, and to detect any problems. Situations that
might need attention are displayed as conditions or alerts.

The dashboard also is your first stop for troubleshooting any cluster
issues.

Avere Systems recommends that you check the Dashboard tab at least
daily and investigate any red system errors or yellow alerts. For more
information read

Monitoring Conditions and Alerts

.

Overview of the Dashboard


The Dashboard tab is divided into the following sections:

Performance graph

Status tabs

Cluster activity monitor

Performance Graph

In the center, a chart displays system performance. You can customize
what is shown on the with the Chart Controls underneath the diagram.
By default, the chart updates continuously to show current activity.

For more information about configuring and interpreting the
performance graph, read

Viewing System Performance

.


Status Tabs

Under the performance graph, the status bar provides easy access to
information about the cluster.


It includes the following tabs, which are described in more detail in

Dashboard Status Tabs

:

Conditions – Notifications about current operational status or system
errors that are affecting the operation of the cluster. For example,
an unreachable core filer creates a condition notification.

Alerts – System warnings and notifications about one-time events that
have happened but are not ongoing. For example, a node restart creates
an alert notification.  Conditions and Alerts are described in
Monitoring Conditions and Alerts.

VServers – A list of the cluster's virtual servers (vservers),
including details like each vserver’s state, its client-facing IP
addresses, and its associated core filers. Read VServers for details.

Core Filers – A list of the cluster's core filers, including details
like each core filer's state, cache policy, network name, associated
vservers, and information about modified files in the cluster cache
that are waiting to be written to the core filer. Read Core Filers for
details.

Nodes – A list of all the nodes that make up the cluster, with details
including each node’s model, state, client-facing IP addresses,
current CPU usage, and performance information. Read Nodes for
details.

Clients – A configurable list of clients using the cluster. Filters
control the list to show clients by source, connection type, activity
level, and other qualities. Read Clients Status Tab for details.

Hot Files – Information about the most active files on the cluster,
including name, file type, node, and throughput. Read Hot Files for
details.

Cache – Data about cache space, including capacity and current
utilization. Data can be viewed by node or for the whole cluster. Read
Cache for details.

Cluster Activity

The cluster activity panel appears at the bottom of each page in the
Avere Control Panel. It shows current and recent cluster-level
activities.

Click the triangle at the left of the Cluster Activity label to show
the activity table.


Depending on the activity, data can include this kind of information:

Process name

Start time

Last update time

Progress, if available

Process status

Action to take, if applicable

The Limit to category drop-down control lets you filter the list.
Choose All to show active and recently completed activities, or choose
In progress to display only activities that are currently active.
Other categories can appear on the list depending on the type of
recent activities – for example, if software is being updated on the
cluster, an upgrade filter might be shown.


Activities are cleared from the list after about ten minutes.
