Configuring VServers and Global Namespace

Avere OS's

vservers

 are virtual fileservers that control how data flows between the
client and the cluster's core filers.

VServers manage vital functions in an Avere cluster:

VServers host client-facing IP addresses

VServers' namespace junctions map the client-facing virtual directory
structure to exports on the backend storage

VServers enforce file access controls, including core filer export
policies and user authentication systems

VServers provide SMB infrastructure

Before starting to configure a cluster vserver, read the linked
documentation and consult your Avere representative as needed to
understand the structure of the Avere cluster's file serving system.

These sections of the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 will help you familiarize yourself with Avere OS's vserver and global
namespace features.

Creating and Working with VServers

Using a Global Namespace

Creating a VServer

To create a new vserver, you will need the following information:

The name to set for the vserver

The range of client-facing IP addresses the vserver will handle  When
creating a vserver you must supply a single range of contiguous IP
addresses, but you can add more addresses later by using the Client
Facing Network settings page.

If your network has VLANs, which VLAN to use

A cluster can have multiple vservers.

Use the VServer > Manage VServers settings page to create a new
vserver.

Refer to

VServer > Manage VServers

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for complete information.


Creating a Junction

A

junction

 maps the backend storage path to a client-visible namespace. You can
use this system to simplify the path used in client mount points, and
to scale capacity seamlessly because one virtual path can accommodate
storage from multiple core filers.


Refer to

VServer > Namespace

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for complete details about creating a namespace junction.


Configuring Export Rules

After you have both a vserver and a core filer, you should customize
the export rules and export policies that control how clients can
access files on the core filer exports.

First, use the VServer > Export Rules page to add new rules, to modify
the default policy, or to create your own custom export policy.

Second, use the VServer > Export Policies page to apply the customized
policy to your core filer's exports when accessed through that
vserver.

Read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for details.
