Customizing Support and Monitoring Settings for the Avere Cluster

As part of getting your Avere cluster up and running, you might want
to make sure that debugging statistics are enabled and that other
settings are configured to help Avere Global Services assist you if
there is a problem.

Customers also should consider enabling the system's remote monitoring
features, which are configured on the Cluster > Monitoring settings
page. You can configure email alerts, external logging, and SNMP
monitoring. (Read

Remote Monitoring

, to learn more.)

Support Configuration

These basic support settings should be configured for all clusters.

These settings are made in the Settings tab on the Cluster > Support
page in the Avere Control Panel.

(You might also use the Support tab in the Avere Control Panel to
configure and kick off manual support uploads if requested by your
Avere representative.)

The

Cluster Configuration Guide

 explains the support options in more detail. Start by reading

Using the Avere Control Panel Support Tab

.

Support Settings Page Items

On the Settings > Cluster > Support page, address the following items.

Read

Cluster > Support

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for more complete information on these features.

In the Customer Info section, take these actions:  Unique Cluster Name
- If needed, specify a name that identifies your company and also
uniquely identifies the cluster if you have more than one. This string
will be used to identify any system files uploaded to Avere Global
Services. (The main cluster name also is used with diagnostic uploads,
but this field supplements the cluster name if needed.)  Statistics
Monitoring - Check the box to enable this feature.  General
Information Upload - Check the box to enable this feature.  Crash
Information Upload - Leave this setting enabled. In the event of a
system restart, this setting automatically uploads any resulting
memory core files to Avere Global Services for analysis.

Submit those changes, then click the Revalidate upload information
button to initiate a data upload to Avere Systems as a test.

Optionally, configure these items in the Secure Proactive Support
section. SPS is an optional feature that allows Avere Global Services
staff to remotely troubleshoot your cluster. Read Secure Proactive
Support (SPS) in the Cluster Configuration Guide for more information.
Enable SPS Link - Check the box to turn on Secure Proactive Support.
Remote Command Level - Change the selection from Disabled to one of
the other options. Support is the most conservative level.  Shipping
Information - Optionally, fill in the contact name and shipping
address to use in the event that any hardware needs to be replaced.

Click the Submit button in the SPS section to save those settings.

Support Tab - Upload Test

On the Support tab, you can test the General Information Upload
system.

Select either a particular node or the full cluster in the Details
section at the top of the Support tab. Leave the Choose gather mode
control set to Support bundle and click the Upload information button.

The Support Status section of the Support tab will display messages
for each affected node as data is collected and uploaded during the
test. The messages progress from "Statistics gathering complete" to
"Uploading <filename>" and finally return to "No support operations
currently running".

The test can take five to ten minutes to complete. It is normal for
the primary node to take longer to complete than other nodes if you
are collecting cluster-wide statistics.

Remote Monitoring

You can use the Cluster > Monitoring settings page to enable remote
monitoring tools. Using any of these tools is optional.

Options include:

Email Monitoring - Set up email notification for system alerts.

Logs - Specify a remote syslog server to receive log messages.

SNMP - Set up a simple network management protocol server to monitor
your Avere cluster.

Read more about these features and how to configure them in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 in

Cluster > Monitoring

.
