Customizing Node Settings

There are some node-related settings that you should consider
customizing as part of your initial Avere cluster setup:

Node name - The label that the cluster uses for the node

IPMI port address - How the node's IPMI port gets its IP address

Both of these settings can be made for individual nodes, or at the
cluster level.

Tip: If you want to set either of these values at the cluster level,
  consider doing it before adding nodes to the cluster. Newly added
  nodes automatically pick up the cluster-level settings.

To set these items at the individual node level, use the Node Details
settings page. This page does not appear in the Avere Control Panel's
navigation sidebar; load the page by clicking the node name in the
list on the FXT Nodes page or on the IPMI settings page.

(The Node Details page also shows configuration information and
statistics for the selected node. For more information about the node
details page, read

Node Details

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

.)

To set node names at the cluster level, use the Cluster > General
Setup page.

To set IPMI address method at the cluster level, use the Cluster >
IPMI settings page.

Node Name Configuration

Set an individual node name on its Node Details page, or set a naming
schema for the cluster on the Cluster > General Setup page.

Set A Single Node Name

You can change the name of a single node by editing the Node name
field.

Load the node details page by clicking on a node name in the list on
the FXT Nodes settings page or on the IPMI settings page.


After updating the node name, click Submit to save your changes.

Set the Cluster-Wide Node Naming Scheme

You can set a default name for all nodes that join the cluster in the
future by using the Cluster > General Setup page.


New nodes will be automatically named with the base name that you set
and the next available number.

This setting does not affect nodes that joined the cluster before the
change.

Use the Node prefix field to enter the base name for new nodes.
Optionally, you can configure the number of digits in the node number
by using the placeholder value # - for example, specifying ### in the
Node prefix field will give a three-digit node number for each node
that uses this naming scheme. The default value is two digits.

You can set the starting node number for automatic assignment in the
First node number field.

For more detailed information about this setting, read

Cluster > General Setup

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

.

IPMI Configuration

Each FXT node has an Intelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI)
port, which provides access to the FXT node hardware for emergency
troubleshooting.

As part of your cluster setup, you should configure how the nodes'
IPMI ports get their IP addresses. Choose from the following options:

No configuration

Static - Manually set the IP address  Read Setting a Static IPMI Port
Address for detailed information about this option.

DHCP - Obtain an IP address from a DHCP server

By default, IPMI ports come configured to use DHCP. If you choose No
configuration, each node will either obtain its IPMI address by using
DHCP, or use whatever configuration was last set for this node's port.

Note: The IPMI port allows access to the FXT node's hardware
  directly, bypassing the security built in to the Avere operating
  system. Protect this port from unauthorized use by connecting it to
  a secure network, ensuring that the IPMI administrator password is
  changed from the default value, and securing the DHCP environment if
  you use DHCP to assign IP addresses. Avere recommends using
  physically separated networks for IPMI ports and data ports.

Like node names, IPMI mode can be set at the cluster level or at the
individual node level. Use the links below to jump to the options:

Configure IPMI for One Node

Configure IPMI for the Avere cluster

Setting a Static IPMI Port Address

If using a static IP address for one or more nodes in the cluster, you
must provide the IP address and other information.


Provide the following information:

IP address - The address to set for the node's IPMI port  On the
cluster IPMI configuration form, this section asks for the first and
last IP address instead of a single address. Use these fields to
provide a range of IP addresses for the cluster nodes' IPMI ports.

Netmask - The netmask for the IPMI addresses

Router - The router that the IPMI connections should use

Enter the netmask and router for the network that serves your IPMI
ports. For security, Avere Systems recommends using physically
separated Ethernet networks for IPMI ports and for data services.

Configure IPMI for One Node

Use the Node Details page to set how an individual FXT node's IPMI
port gets its IP address.

(To open the node details page, click a node name in either the FXT
Nodes or IPMI settings page.)


The configuration options are described in more detail in

IPMI Configuration

, above.

Configure IPMI for the Avere cluster

Configure how all of the cluster's IPMI ports get their addresses by
using the Cluster > IPMI settings page.

Note: Setting a cluster-wide configuration option overwrites any
  options that you have set for individual nodes. To customize
  individual nodes, set their IPMI addresses from the node details
  page

  after

   changing the cluster setting.

The IPMI page shows the addresses currently assigned to each node, and
the Configuration Type column shows whether the node gets its address
from the cluster-wide setting (Cluster) or from the individual setting
(Manual).


The configuration options are described in more detail in

IPMI Configuration

, above.

Note that if you want to set static IP addresses at the cluster level,
you will need to supply a contiguous range of IP addresses that is
large enough to provide a unique address to each node.
