Additional Network Settings

When setting up a new cluster, there are several network-related tasks
that you might need to perform.

Configure round-robin DNS for the client-facing network  Make sure
that your client network's DNS system is configured as described in
Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster, below.

Verify NTP settings

Set up client-facing IP addresses  Client access is controlled by the
cluster's virtual servers (vservers). VServer setup is described in
detail in Configuring VServers and Global Namespace.

Add cluster network addresses  If you need to provide additional IP
addresses for cluster nodes, use the Cluster Networks settings page.
Read Cluster > Cluster Networks in the Cluster Configuration Guide for
details.

Configure Active Directory and username/group name downloads (if
needed)  If your network hosts use Active Directory or another kind of
external directory service, you must modify the cluster's directory
services configuration to set up how the cluster downloads username
and group information. Read Cluster > Directory Services in the
Cluster Configuration Guide for details.  Note that the Avere cluster
requires an AD server to support SMB. Configure AD before starting to
set up SMB.

Define VLANs (optional)  You should configure any additional VLANs
needed before defining your cluster's vservers and global namespace.
Read Configuring VServers and Global Namespace and Working with VLANs
in the Cluster Configuration Guide to learn more.

Configure proxy servers (if needed)  If your cluster is required to
use a proxy server to access external addresses, define it in the
Proxy Configuration settings page and apply it by using the Cluster >
General Setup page or the Core Filer Details page. Read Cluster >
Proxy Configuration in the Cluster Configuration Guide for details.

Upload encryption certificates (optional)  Read Encryption
Certificates for details about how to store security certificates for
use by the cluster.

For additional information about network services used by the Avere
cluster, read

Configuring Network Services for an Avere Cluster

 in the Cluster Configuration Guide.

Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster

This section explains the basics for setting up DNS for your Avere OS
cluster.

If your system is accessed by NFS clients only, using DNS is
recommended but not required;  it is possible to specify all network
addresses by using numeric IP addresses. If your system supports SMB
(CIFS) access, DNS is required, because you must specify a DNS domain
for the Active Directory server.

DNS also is required if you want to use Kerberos authentication.

Client Load Balancing

To distribute the overall load, configure your DNS domain to use
round-robin load distribution for client-facing IP addresses. (This is
called round-robin DNS, or RRDNS.)

When clients access the cluster, RRDNS automatically balances their
requests among all available interfaces.

RRDNS Configuration Details

For optimal performance, configure your DNS server to handle client-
facing cluster addresses as shown in the following diagram.

A cluster vserver is shown on the left, and IP addresses appear in the
center and on the right. Configure each client access point with A
records and pointers as illustrated.


Each client-facing IP address must have a unique name for internal use
by the cluster. (In this diagram, the client IPs are named "vs1
-client-IP-*" for clarity, but in production you should probably use
something more concise, like "client*".)

Clients mount the cluster using the vserver name as the server
argument.

Modify your DNS server's "named.conf" file to set cyclic order for
queries to your vserver. This option ensures that all of the available
values are cycled through. Add a statement like the following:

   options {
       rrset-order {
           class IN A name "vserver1.example.com" order cyclic;
       };
   };

The following "nsupdate" commands provide an example of configuring
DNS correctly:

   update add vserver1.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.10
   update add vserver1.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.11
   update add vserver1.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.12
   update add vs1-client-IP-10.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.10
   update add vs1-client-IP-11.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.11
   update add vs1-client-IP-12.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.12
   update add 10.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 86400 PTR vs1-client-IP-10.example.com
   update add 11.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 86400 PTR vs1-client-IP-11.example.com
   update add 12.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 86400 PTR vs1-client-IP-12.example.com

Cluster DNS Settings

DNS parameters for the cluster are set in the

Cluster > Administrative Network

 settings page. Settings on that page include:

DNS server address

DNS domain name

DNS search domains

Read

DNS Settings

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for more details about using this page.

Encryption Certificates

Avere OS uses X.509 certificates for these functions:

To encrypt cluster administration traffic

To authenticate on behalf of a client to third-party KMIP servers

For verifying cloud providers' server certificates

If you need to upload certificates to the cluster, use the Cluster >
Certificates settings page. Read

Cluster > Certificates

 in the Cluster Configuration Guide for details.

To encrypt cluster management communication, use the Cluster > General
Setup settings page to select which certificate to use for
administrative SSL.

Note: Cloud service access keys are stored by using the Cloud
  Credentials configuration page. Read

  Cloud Credentials

   for an overview of that process.
