Adding Backend Storage

A

core filer

 is the entity that links a backend storage system (for example, a NAS
hardware appliance or a cloud object store) to the Avere cluster.

Use the Avere Control Panel to add a core filer to your system.

(Note that a FlashCloud license is required to use cloud storage as a
core filer in your Avere cluster. You cannot define a cloud core filer
until after the license has been installed.)

More complete information is included in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

:

For additional information about choosing and preparing to add a core
filer, read Working With Core Filers.

For additional prerequisites and step-by-step instructions, read one
or both of these:  Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer  Adding a
New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer

After adding a core filer, you can view or modify its properties by
using the Core Filer Details settings page.

Adding a Core Filer

Define a core filer by clicking the Create button on the Core Filer >
Manage Core Filers settings page.


The Add New Core Filer wizard walks you through the process of
creating a core filer that links to your backend storage. The

Cluster Configuration Guide

 has very detailed descriptions of the process, which is different for
NFS/NAS storage and for cloud storage.

License-Based Restrictions

The options might be restricted based on what licenses you have
installed. The screenshot below is from a cluster that does not have a
FlashCloud license installed.


Cache Policy Choices

On the second page of the wizard you must select a cache policy for
the new core filer. These are described in detail in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

.

Policies that require additional licenses cannot be selected.


Adding the Core Filer

After filling in all of the required settings in the Add New Core
Filer wizard, click the Add Filer button to submit the change.

(For a cloud core filer, there is an additional page for specifying
the storage system and encryption details - read

Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for help with this configuration.)

After a few moments, the storage system appears on the Dashboard's
core filers list and can be accessed through core filer settings
pages.


Note that this screenshot shows a core filer with no vserver - its
setup is not complete. You must associate the core filer with a
vserver to allow clients to access the storage system. Read

Configuring VServers and Global Namespace

 for help with the next step.

About Local Directories

The Local Directories feature in Avere OS provides enhanced caching
services, which can impact the cluster's throughput in some scenarios.
Avere Systems recommends that customers consult their Avere
representatives before enabling this feature.

Some caching scenarios require the Local Directories feature, so some
cache policies are unavailable until after you have obtained and
installed a Local Directories license file.  There is no additional
charge for the license. Contact Avere Global Services if you have
questions.

Cloud Credentials

If you add a cloud object store as a core filer, you must specify the
cloud service and credentials for accessing the storage, among other
parameters. You can add a cloud storage credential as part of creating
the core filer.


If you later want to add, change or remove a credential, use the
Cluster > Cloud Credentials settings page.

For more details, read the

Cluster > Cloud Credentials

 chapter in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

, and the

Cloud Service and Protocol

 section of the chapter that describes the cloud core filer wizard.
