Creating an Avere Cluster

This section walks step by step through the process of creating the
Avere cluster.

Before starting this procedure, make sure at least one of the FXT
nodes is powered on and has network connectivity. Follow the
procedures in the

FXT 5000 Series Installation Guide

.

Boot the First Node

If you have not already done so, power on at least one of the FXT
nodes for your cluster, and make sure it has a network connection and
an IP address.

To turn on the node, press the node's power button. Make sure that no
alarms are audible from the node (these can indicate a misinstalled or
failed power supply).

To check the network connection, make sure that the node's network
link LEDs are illuminated (and, if necessary, the indicators on the
network switch to which it is attached). Indicator LEDs are described
in the monitoring chapter of the

FXT 5000 Series Installation Guide

.

When the node boots, it will request an IP address. If it is connected
to a DHCP server, it accepts the IP address provided by DHCP. (This is
a temporary IP address that you will change when you configure the
cluster.)

If it is not connected to a DHCP server or does not receive a
response, the node will use Bonjour software to set a self-assigned IP
address in the form 169.254.*.*. However, Avere Systems recommends
that you set a temporary static IP address on one of the node's
network cards before using it to create a cluster. Read

Appendix A: Setting a Static IP Address on an FXT Node

 for instructions.

Connect to the First Node

You can connect to any of the installed FXT nodes and use its Avere OS
software to set up the cluster.

Find an IP Address

To determine the IP address of the node you want to use, connect to it
by using a serial cable, direct connection, or through a KVM switch.
For more information, read

Connecting to the Physical Node

 in

Appendix A: Setting a Static IP Address on an FXT Node

.

When connected, log in with the username "root" and the default
password "tiered2010"

After logging in, you need to determine the node's IP address.

Use the command "ifconfig" to see the addresses assigned to this
system.

For example, the command "ifconfig | grep -B5 inet" searches for ports
with internet addresses and gives five lines of context to show the
port identifier.

Write down any IP address shown in the ifconfig report. Addresses
listed with port names like e0a or e0b are good options. Do not use
any IP addresses listed with e7* names, since those names are only
used for IPMI ports, not regular network ports.

Load the Configuration Wizard in a Web Browser

Enter the IP address for the node in a web browser. If the browser
gives a message about the site being untrusted, proceed to the site
anyway. (Individual FXT nodes do not have CA-provided security
certificates.)


Leave the Username and Password fields blank. Click Login to load the
cluster creation page.


The next sections in this document walk you through cluster
configuration steps.

Creating the Cluster

A set of configuration screens helps you specify all of the
information needed to create  your Avere cluster.

Be sure that you have the information ready before starting. Read

Preparing To Create an Avere Cluster

 to learn what names and IP address ranges you will need.

Initial Options

The first screen gives three options. Most users can go directly to
the "configure a new cluster manually" option.


Options are:

Update the system image  Choose this option if you need to install new
Avere OS software before creating the cluster. (The currently
installed software version is listed at the top of the screen.)  If
you click this link, you are prompted to specify the package file to
use. You can provide a URL and username/password, or upload a file
from your computer.

Configure the cluster manually  Choose this option to create a new
cluster.

Use an Avere setup file  Use this option only if directed to do so by
Avere Global Services.

Click I will configure the cluster manually to load the new cluster
configuration options screen.

New Cluster Configuration Options

The next screen prompts you to configure options for the new cluster.


This page is divided into two main sections, Basic Configuration and
Networking Configuration. The networking configuration section also
has subsections for the Management network and the Cluster network.

Click a link below if you want to jump directly to the description of
that particular section:

Basic Configuration

Networking Configuration

Management Network Configuration

Cluster Network Configuration

Basic Configuration

In the top section, fill in basic information for the new cluster.


Cluster Name - Enter a unique name for the cluster.

You can change this name later on the Cluster > General Setup
configuration page.

A cluster name must meet these criteria:

Length of 1 to 16 characters

Can include letters, numbers, and the dash (-) and underscore (_)
characters

Must not include other punctuation or special characters

Note: Your cluster name will be used to identify your files if you
  need to upload system information to Avere Global Services for
  troubleshooting or monitoring, so it's helpful to include your
  company name.

Admin password - Set the password for the default administrative user,
"admin".

Although you should specify individual administrative user accounts
for each person who configures or administers the cluster, the user
"admin" must exist for the cluster. Log in as "admin" if you need to
create additional users.

You can change the password for "admin" in the Administration > Users
settings page in the Avere Control Panel. Read

Administration > Users

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for details.

Networking Configuration

The Networking section prompts you to specify the network
infrastructure that the cluster will use.

There are two separate networks to configure:

The management network provides administrator access to the cluster
for configuration and monitoring. The IP address specified here is
used when connecting to the Avere Control Panel or for SSH access.
Most clusters use only a single management IP address, but if you want
to add interfaces you can do so after creating the cluster.

The cluster network is used for communication among cluster nodes and
between cluster nodes and backend storage (core filers).

(The client-facing network is configured later, after the cluster has
been created.)

This section also includes configuration for DNS and NTP servers that
are used by both networks.

Management Network

The settings in the Management section are for the network that
provides administrative access to the cluster.


Management IP - Specify the IP address that you will use to access the
Avere Control Panel. This address will be claimed by the cluster's
primary node, but it automatically moves to a healthy node if the
original primary node becomes unavailable.

After the cluster has been created, you have the option to configure a
range of management network IP addresses by using the Cluster >
Administrative Network settings page. However, most clusters use only
one management IP address. Read

Cluster > Administrative Network

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for details.

Netmask - Specify the netmask for the management network.

Router - Enter the default gateway address used by the management
network.

VLAN tag (optional) - If your cluster uses VLAN tags, specify the tag
for the management network.

Read

Working with VLANs

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 to learn more.

Additional VLAN settings are configured in the Cluster > VLAN settings
page - read

Cluster > VLAN

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for details.

MTU - If necessary, adjust the maximum transmission unit (MTU) for
your cluster's management network.

Use 1Gb mgmt network - Check this box if you want to assign the 1GbE
network ports on your FXT nodes to the management network only.

FXT 5000 Series hardware has four built-in 1GbE ports (e0a, e0b, e0c,
and e0d), and all four are included in the management network if this
box is checked.

Cluster Network

The cluster network settings apply to traffic among cluster nodes, and
between cluster nodes and core filers.


First IP and Last IP - Enter the IP addresses that define the range of
addresses to be used for internal cluster communication. The IP
addresses used here must be contiguous and not assigned by DHCP.

You can add more IP addresses after creating the cluster. (Use the
Cluster > Cluster Networks settings page, documented in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 - read

Cluster > Cluster Networks

.)

The value in Number of IPs in Range is calculated and shown
automatically.

Non-mgmt netmask (optional) - Specify the netmask for the cluster
network. (The system automatically suggests the netmask value that you
entered for the management network; change it if needed.)

Cluster router (optional) - Specify the default gateway address used
by the cluster network. The system automatically suggests the same
gateway address that you supplied for the management network.

Cluster VLAN tag (optional) - If your cluster uses VLAN tags, specify
the tag for the cluster network.

Read

Working with VLANs

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 to learn more.

Non-mgmt MTU (optional) - If necessary, adjust the maximum
transmission unit (MTU) for your cluster network.

DNS and NTP Settings

Below the Cluster section there are fields for specifying DNS and NTP
servers, and for enabling link aggregation. These settings apply to
all networks that the cluster uses.


DNS server(s) - Enter the IP address of one or more domain name system
(DNS) servers.

DNS is recommended for all clusters, and required if you want to use
SMB, AD, or Kerberos. For optimal performance, configure the cluster's
DNS server for round-robin load balancing as described in

Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster

.

DNS domain - Enter the network domain name the cluster will use.

DNS search - Optionally, enter additional domain names that the system
should search to resolve DNS queries. You can add up to six domain
names, separated by spaces.

NTP server(s) - Specify either one or three network time protocol
(NTP) servers in the fields provided. You can use hostnames or IP
addresses.

Link aggregation - Link aggregation allows you to customize how the
ethernet ports on the cluster FXT nodes handle various types of
traffic. Read

Link Aggregation

 in the

Cluster Configuration Guide

 for more information.

Creating the Cluster

After supplying all the required elements in the form, click the
Create Cluster button.


The system displays a message while creating the cluster.


After a few moments, you can click the link in the message to go to
the Avere Control Panel. This link takes you to the IP address that
you specified in Management IP. The link will be active about 15
seconds to one minute after you click the Create cluster button; if
the web interface does not load, wait several seconds and then retry
the link.

Cluster creation takes a minute or more, but you can log in to the
Avere Control Panel while the process is going on. It is normal for
the Dashboard to show warnings until the cluster creation process is
finished.

Read

Initial Cluster Configuration Steps

 for more information about logging in and to learn what steps you
need to take to get your newly created cluster ready for users.
