Initial Cluster Configuration Steps

After the cluster is created, complete the setup by adding nodes,
specifying the backend storage system to use, setting up your file
namespace, enabling SMB access if needed, and other tasks.

This section walks you through the steps to bring your cluster from a
newly created basic form to a fully functional system ready to serve
data.

Setup Tasks

Steps to take when configuring a fresh cluster include the following:

Add cluster nodes  Three nodes is the minimum; many production
clusters have more, up to a maximum of 24 nodes.  Read Adding Nodes to
the Cluster for details about adding nodes and configuring High
Availability.

Customize node settings  Read Customizing Node Settings to learn how
to set node names and how to configure IP addresses for node IPMI
ports. These settings can be made individually per node, or cluster-
wide.

Specify backend storage  Add core filer definitions for each backend
storage system that the cluster will use. Read Adding Backend Storage
to learn more.

Set up the client-facing filesystem  The Global Namespace (GNS)
feature lets you map core filer storage destinations to virtual paths,
giving clients a consistent and accessible filesystem structure even
if you switch storage media. This feature also allows you to emulate
hierarchical storage while using cloud-based object stores.  Read
Configuring VServers and Global Namespace for details.  This step
includes:  Creating vservers  Setting up junctions between the client
network view and backend storage  Defining which client IP addresses
are served by each vserver  Significant planning is recommended before
starting to set up the cluster's GNS. Read the Using a Global
Namespace and Creating and Working with VServers sections in the
Cluster Configuration Guide for help.

Adjust network settings  There are several network-related settings
that should be verified or customized for a new cluster.  Read
Additional Network Settings for details about these items:  Verifying
DNS and NTP configuration  Configuring directory services  Setting up
VLANs  Configuring proxy servers  Adding IP addresses to the cluster
network  Storing encryption certificates

Configure SMB  If you want to allow SMB access to your cluster, you
must configure SMB and turn it on. SMB (sometimes called CIFS) is
typically used to support Microsoft Windows clients.  Planning for and
configuring SMB involves more than clicking a few buttons in the
Avere Control Panel. Depending on your system's requirements, SMB can
influence how you define core filers, how many vservers you create,
how you configure your junctions and namespace, access permissions,
and other settings.  Read Configuring SMB Access in the Cluster
Configuration Guide for more complete information.  When you are ready
to activate SMB for your Avere cluster, use the CIFS and CIFS Shares
settings pages in the VServer section of the Avere Control Panel.
Refer to the Cluster Configuration Guide for details.

Install additional licenses  If you plan to use optional features,
including Local Directories, FlashCloudTM, FlashMove®, or
FlashMirror®, you must install additional feature licenses.  Local
Directories is an optional cache organization strategy. It requires
some advance planning before implementation. Contact Avere Global
Services to discuss its advantages and to obtain a free license.
FlashCloud enables your cluster to use cloud object storage as a
backend core filer.  FlashMove and FlashMirror give your cluster
sophisticated data migration and replication capabilities.  Installing
feature licenses is covered in an appendix of the Cluster
Configuration Guide.  Learn more about FlashMove and FlashMirror in
the Avere OS Data Management Guide.

Set up support monitoring  When establishing a new cluster, you should
customize the name used to identify your cluster in case a system
memory file needs to be sent to Avere Global Services for debugging.
You also can configure what statistics are monitored, and enable the
proactive support system that automatically uploads status reports to
Avere Global Services for remote troubleshooting.  Read Customizing
Support and Monitoring Settings for the Avere Cluster to learn more.

Logging In to the Avere Control Panel

These cluster setup steps involve changing settings in the Avere
Control Panel web interface. (A command-line XML-RPC interface also is
available, but it is recommended for experienced Avere cluster
administrators only; contact Avere Global Services to learn more.)

Use a web browser to connect to the cluster's management address. A
link shows on the cluster status screen while the cluster is being
created.

Log in to the web interface with the username "admin" and the password
that you set when creating the cluster.


The Avere Control Panel opens and shows the Dashboard page. As the
cluster creation completes, any warning messages should clear from the
display.

Click the Settings tab to configure the cluster.


Within the Settings tab, a menu of configuration pages appears at the
left side of the window. They are organized by category. Click the +
or - control at the top of the category name to expand or hide the
contents of the category.


The next sections of this document give more specific instructions for
using these configuration pages to finish setting up an Avere cluster.
