Creating a New FlashMove or FlashMirror Job

A wizard walks you through creating a new FlashMove job or
establishing a new FlashMirror.

In the Data Management tab of the Avere Control Panel, click the
Create button at the top of the page.

Note: You also can open the data management job wizard from the
  VServer > Namespace page on the Settings tab. Select the junction
  that will be the source for the move or mirror job, then click the
  Move/Mirror button on the Namespace page.


Migration Checklist

Before starting the wizard, make sure you know these details about the
filesystems involved.

Is the source directory mapped as a namespace junction on the Avere
cluster?  If the source path directly corresponds with a junction in
the cluster namespace, you should select the junction as the source
instead of specifying the directory explicitly. Using the junction
helps prevent errors because paths and SMB information (if used) are
filled in automatically.  If the source is not mapped as a junction,
you must use the custom source definition option and manually supply
the path and SMB information.

Does the source directory use SMB to allow access by Windows clients?
If it does, make sure you have the following information:

   An administrative username for the SMB share on the source and
   destination directories

   The name of the SMB share for the source and destination
   directories.  Note that the SMB share must access exactly the same
   directory as the NFS export in order for the migration to succeed.

Is any other migration job running on the source junction?  If so,
that job must be aborted or completed before another job can be
started.

Do both the source and destination core filers use an appropriate
cache policy? Make sure the systems Full Caching or an eligible custom
policy as described in Core Filer Requirements.

Is the destination directory mapped as a namespace junction, or can it
be reached through a junction? You cannot move or mirror data to
another junction in the same Avere cluster, so you will need to remove
the junction or choose a different path as the destination. This
restriction applies even if moving data to a subdirectory of a
junction. Read Junction Warning to learn more.

Does the source filesystem include any hard links to content outside
of the source? These must be removed or changed before starting the
job. (If possible, change the links to symbolic links or move the
target files inside the path being migrated.)

Job Definition

In the first section of the first wizard page, choose which data to
use, and what to do with it.

Source Selection

From the drop-down menu labeled Namespace junction, choose the source
directory for the job.

Existing junctions on the cluster are listed by vserver.


You must choose a junction that does not have an existing active
FlashMove or FlashMirror job. Even a stopped job (that has not been
completed or aborted) will block you from creating another data
migration from that source.

To migrate data that does not have a direct junction, choose Custom
source definition. You will enter details about the source on page two
of the wizard.

Note: If migrating a custom source directory with SMB access, select
  the Preserve CIFS ACLs checkbox before proceeding to the second
  page. The wizard does not automatically detect SMB settings on
  custom directories.

Job Type

Use the Job type field to select either Move or Mirror.

Most of the options are the same for either type of data management
job, but FlashMirror jobs include an extra

mirror synchronization

 setting that controls how the source and the mirror are kept
synchronized.

Job Options

The bottom panel of the first wizard page sets various options for the
FlashMove or FlashMirror job.


Use these links to jump quickly to individual settings:

Initial State

Overwrite Mode

Enable file logging

Mirror synchronization policy

Preserve CIFS ACLs

Sparse file checking

Primary node selection

Notes

Initial state -
   Choose Stopped if you want to start the job manually from the list,
   or Start now to begin the job automatically after creating it.

Overwrite mode -
   Select how to determine whether or not to copy files onto the
   destination core filer if files with the same name already exist.
   This setting can save time by not recopying files that already
   exist on the destination.

   Options are:

   Always - Files from the source will always be written to the
   destination, even if they already are present. This copies source
   files (and overwrites identically named destination files) in all
   cases.  This option can lead to longer job times than the other
   options. Use this option if the destination core filer has not been
   previously populated with files from the source, or if you are not
   sure which option to use.

   Filehandle, size, or modification time changed - This option is
   designed for a new migration that replaces a previous job that did
   not complete or was aborted after synchronization (for example,
   because of a core filer outage or network problem).  If a file has
   already been transferred between the source and destination, and
   the source and destination files have identical file handles,
   sizes, and modification times, the file is not recopied. This
   option allows you to migrate only the data that was not copied in
   the aborted job.  This option includes comparing the file handles
   that the Avere cluster read during the previous migration attempt
   with the file handles currently on the core filer.

   Size or modification time changed - Use this option if your
   destination directory is already populated and you want to update
   it with any changed data from the source core filer.  This option
   checks standard NFS file attributes to determine whether or not
   identically named files are identical.  Overwrite Mode options

For more details about how Avere OS compares and copies files, read

File Comparison and Preserving Metadata

.

Enable file logging -
   Check this box to create a log that records each file transfer. You
   can specify a log file name after checking the box; the default
   name is ".avere_log_migration[<job_number>]".

   The log file is created in the root path of the migration source
   and copied over to the destination as part of the job. Access the
   log file by using the namespace junction defined for the source.
   Make sure that the job source accepts writes and has sufficient
   storage available for the log file. (The size of the log file
   depends on the number of file transfers; if the log file reaches
   1GB, logging stops.)


   (You can change the log file if a job is stopped; see

   Modifying a Stopped Job

   .)

Mirror synchronization policy (FlashMirror jobs only) -
   This option allows you to set a synchronization style for
   FlashMirror jobs. This policy determines how the cluster handles
   failures when updating changed files on the mirror.

   The synchronization policy does not affect the initial transfer
   between the mirror source and the destination, it only applies to
   updates, and only if the destination system returns errors or
   becomes inaccessible.


   There are two policy options: Flexible (the default), and Strict.

   The Flexible policy retries a failed write to the destination core
   filer for up to 15 minutes. If the destination is still giving
   error messages after 15 minutes, the file is skipped, and put on a
   list of changes that need to be retried. The cluster dashboard
   shows an alert and the mirror status might change to Out of sync.
   Flexible is the default policy.

   With Strict synchronization, a failure writing a change to the
   destination core filer causes the system to retry the write
   indefinitely. Under this policy, no operation is considered
   complete until it has reached both the source and the destination
   core filer.

   Each policy has advantages and disadvantages.

   Strict synchronization limits the difference between the primary
   storage system and its mirror. However, if the mirror volume
   becomes unavailable, it is possible for the Avere cache to fill
   with retrying sync operations and become unresponsive for client
   operations.

   Flexible synchronization allows client operations to proceed
   unaffected by synchronization overhead, but can result in a larger
   discrepancy between the primary storage system and the mirror site
   if there are connectivity problems or other errors.  The flexible
   option lets the primary system continue to be updated even if the
   primary system becomes unavailable.

Preserve CIFS ACLs -
   If you are migrating an SMB share, check this box to copy the ACLs
   on the source share to the destination share. This box should be
   checked automatically if you chose an SMB-enabled junction as the
   source in the Job Definition section.

   Note: This option should always be enabled when migrating an SMB
     share controlled by ACLs.

   Both shares must be on core filers configured for SMB access.


   Two additional values can be set when Preserve CIFS ACLs is
   checked:

   Overwrite destination root ACL - Check this box if you want to copy
   the source directory's root ACL to the destination root. (This
   setting is typically recommended.)

   CIFS vserver - If you chose an SMB-enabled junction in the
   Namespace junction field, this field should be populated with the
   vserver that corresponds to that junction.  If you chose Custom
   source definition, a pull-down menu with a list of cluster vservers
   appears. Choose the vserver that provides access to the directory
   you will migrate. If the vserver does not appear on the list, check
   that it meets these requirements:  SMB/CIFS is enabled on the
   vserver  Protocol Transition is enabled in Active Directory
   Constrained delegation is configured on the vserver for both the
   source and destination core filers of the migration job

Sparse file checking -
   By default, the migration job scans for empty blocks in data files
   and avoids writing the empty blocks to save drive space on the
   destination. If you know that your dataset does not include many
   files with empty blocks, disabling this feature gives a small
   performance advantage.

Primary node selection -
   This field allows you to specify which cluster node handles the
   processing work for this move or mirror job. The default (Auto)
   selects the node with the fewest Data Management jobs running, or
   by using a round-robin system.

   This setting specifies the preferred node. If the selected node
   fails and is removed from the cluster, another node will take over
   the migration job automatically.

Notes -
   Optionally, use this field to enter administrative notes about the
   job. The text entered here is shown on the job details view.

Click the Next button to load the second page of the wizard.


Data Source

The top of the second screen in the Add New Data Management Job wizard
shows the data source information you specified in the first screen,
plus some additional settings.


If you chose a junction in the first screen, the Source export and
Export subdirectory fields are filled in from the junction.

If SMB is enabled for the selected source, the Source share name field
is filled in with the SMB share name (for a NAS hardware core filer)
or with "[n/a]" (for a cloud core filer).

If you chose Custom source definition on the first page, you must
specify the migration source here. Read

Defining a Custom Data Source

, below, for more information.

Junction Source Information

If you chose a junction as your source directory, most of the source
directory information is filled out on the second page.

If your source has SMB access configured, you must supply the username
for an SMB administrator that is able to read and write SMB ACLs on
the source.

Enter the SMB administrator username in the Source admin username
(CIFS) field. Use the format "DOMAIN\username".

Defining a Custom Data Source


If you chose Custom source definition in the source section of the
first page, you must use this page to specify the data that you want
to move or mirror.

In Source core filer, use the drop-down menu to select one of the
cluster's core filers. This list shows all core filers defined for the
cluster, but some core filers might be unselectable because their
settings prevent data access for migration jobs.

After you choose the core filer, a list of its exports appears in the
Source export field. Choose the export. You can type part of the
export name in the field to filter the list.

If necessary, enter the rest of the path between the export and the
source directory in the Export subdirectory field. (This path is not
validated at creation time.)

For an SMB source, you must also type in the share name and an SMB
administrative username. As with other fields, these are not
validated, so be careful to correctly specify the SMB share that
corresponds with the subdirectory being migrated. This share must
access the same directory on the source core filer as the Source
export field that was selected above.


Showing SMB Options

When defining a custom source path instead of selecting a junction,
SMB settings do not automatically appear on the second page of the Add
New Data Management Job wizard. You must check Preserve CIFS ACLs on
the first page to show SMB options on the second page.

You also must select an SMB-enabled vserver from the list in the CIFS
vserver box on the first page.


Data Destination

In the Data destination section, specify the target of the move or
mirror job. This is the location where your data will be copied.

For a FlashMove job, if the source you selected was a namespace
junction, that junction is remapped to point to the destination
directory after all data files have been transferred. For a
FlashMirror job, the junction is remapped to the destination only if
you use the

Transition

 or

Reverse

 option.

Note that you must not select a destination path that includes a
cluster namespace junction. Read

Junction Warning

 for details.

Destination core filer -
   Select one of the cluster's core filers.

Destination export -
   Choose the target export path on the core filer.

   To filter the list of exports, type part of the export name in the
   field.


Export subdirectory -
   Optionally, specify a subdirectory where the data should be copied.
   If the directory does not exist, Avere OS will create it.

   Do not include a / before the subdirectory name.

Transfer source export policies to destination -
   If you mark this checkbox, the export policy associated with the
   data source will be transferred to the data destination as part of
   the FlashMove or FlashMirror job. That is, the files migrated will
   have the same access policies that they had in the source
   directory.

   In most cases, you should use this option.

   Policies cannot be transferred if either the source or destination
   is a subdirectory of an export. Export policies can only be applied
   at the export level. This checkbox is disabled if a subdirectory is
   selected.

Junction Warning

You cannot move or mirror data to a namespace junction. If you select
a core filer and export location that includes a junction somewhere in
its path, the dialog shows a warning message and you cannot create the
job.

That is, there cannot be a junction to the destination directory
itself, or to a parent of that directory, or to a child of that
directory.


You can migrate data to a destination that is a sibling of a directory
accessible by a junction.

For example, consider a core filer with the following exports:

    /vol1/  Not accessed by a junction  /vol2/dir1/  Accessed by
junction v2dir1/  /vol2/dir2/  Not accessed by a junction

The parents or children of "/vol2/dir1/" - like "/vol2/" and
"/vol2/dir1/subdir1/" -

cannot

 be used as the destination of a FlashMove or FlashMirror job.

However, you

can

 move data to "/vol2/dir2/" and to any subdirectory of "/vol1/" or of
"/vol2/dir2/" since their paths do not overlap with a junction.

The screenshot below removes the warning by specifying a more specific
path - in this example, a subdirectory of the export "/vol/vol1/" is
defined as a junction, but creating a new subdirectory that is a
sibling to the junction allows the migration to take place.


Destination SMB Settings

If you are migrating data from an SMB-accessible source, additional
SMB settings must be specified for the destination.


Supply the following information to transfer SMB-enabled data.

Destination share name -
   Enter the name of the SMB share on the destination core filer that
   accesses the same directory as the core filer export. This share
   must exist before you can create the data management job.

Destination admin username (CIFS) -
   Supply the username for an SMB administrator that is able to read
   and write SMB ACLs on the destination. Use the format
   "DOMAIN\username".

Submitting the New Data Management Job

When all of the settings are complete, click the Add Job button at the
bottom of the second page to create the job.


The job is created and can be viewed in the main Data Management
table.


Job Creation Errors and Warnings

If the Avere cluster encounters problems creating the job, it shows a
pop-up window with an error message. (The specific message depends on
which setting needs to be changed.)


You can use the Back button to return to the job creation wizard and
make corrections, or use the Cancel button to stop creating the job,
removing all settings.

Suspending Snapshots

If migrating data to a cloud core filer, you might see a warning about
suspending snapshots. This message appears if the Avere cluster is set
to automatically store snapshots of the core filer content.

The cluster will not create snapshots of the content on the affected
cloud core filer while a FlashMove or FlashMirror job is active. You
must acknowledge this limitation by typing "yes" in a pop-up dialog
when starting the job.


If snapshots are an important part of your data management strategy,
consider saving a manual snapshot before starting the migration. Read

Core Filer > Cloud Snapshot Policies

 in the Avere Control Panel Settings Guide to learn more.
