Monitoring Data Management Jobs

You create, modify, and track FlashMove and FlashMirror jobs from the
main Data Management tab in the Avere Control Panel.


Basic Table Navigation

The Data Management tab features a table that lists FlashMove and
FlashMirror jobs, with buttons above and below for creating, starting,
stopping and modifying jobs.

The buttons are described in detail in the

Data Management Actions

 section, below.

Detail View

Click the triangular control at the left of any Job ID to open a
detailed view of the job parameters and status.


The details view includes information that can help you track the
job's progress and find any issues. Job details are described in more
detail in

Understanding the Job Details Data

, below.

Sort and Filter

You can sort the jobs by clicking any column header.

The Search field lets you filter the list to show only jobs that match
the string typed. For example, you can use this search to find jobs
that involve a specific path component by typing a junction or
directory name in the search field.


Select a Job

To select a job, click its row on the table. (The Data Management
table does not use an Actions column for selection like other tables
in the Avere Control Panel do.)


Remove a Job from the List

Jobs appear on this table until you remove them. Inactive jobs (jobs
that finished or were aborted) are not automatically purged.

To permanently remove a job from the table:

Make sure that the job is complete or aborted; you cannot remove jobs
that are stopped or paused.

Select the job by clicking its row in the table.

Click the Dismiss button above or below the table.

Job Status Icons

Graphic icons appear in the Status field of the data management job
list. The icons indicate the general status of the job:

Green check mark - The job is proceeding normally.

Yellow exclamation point - The job is proceeding, but might need
attention. This icon is used to alert the administrator to normal
state transitions, but it also can indicate an out-of-sync mirror, a
job that has skipped files due to errors, or other recoverable
situations.

Red X - The job is paused or stopped.

Status icons do not appear for jobs that complete normally or are
aborted.


Data Management Actions

Use the buttons on the Data Management page to create, start, stop,
and change jobs, and to remove them from the table. For convenience,
the buttons appear both above and below the table of jobs.


To use the buttons, select a job in the list by clicking it, then
click the button for the action.

These buttons appear on the page:

Create
   Launches the Add New Data Management Job wizard to create a new
   job. Read

   Creating a New FlashMove or FlashMirror Job

    to learn more. (You do not need to select a job before clicking
   this button.)

Start
   Starts a stopped or paused job. (Use this button to start a newly
   created job with an initial state of "stopped".)

Dismiss
   Removes an inactive job from the Data Management page. The job must
   be completed or aborted before you can remove it from the list.
   Read

   Remove a Job from the List

    for step-by-step instructions.

Actions
   Click the Actions button to open a menu of additional buttons.

Actions: Abort
   Permanently deactivates a job. An aborted job cannot be restarted.

Actions: Pause
   Temporarily interrupts the migration job. Some job parameters can
   be changed while the job is paused. Read

   Modifying a Stopped Job

    for details.

   A paused job retains the state of the file transfer. For FlashMove,
   when you restart a paused job, it picks up where it left off
   instead of starting from the beginning and rechecking or recopying
   all files.

   In the case of a FlashMirror job, files that were previously copied
   to the mirror destination volume continue to be updated with new
   changes from the source. A mirror job can only be paused before it
   is synchronized. For details, see

   Mirror Actions

   .

Actions: Stop
   Interrupts the data management job and discards any progress
   already made.

   If you restart a stopped job, any files that were already copied
   must be rechecked and might need to be recopied. Stopping the job
   removes the record of which files have been compared and updated.
   (When the job starts, its

   Overwrite Mode

    controls how files are compared and copied; you can change the
   overwrite mode on a stopped job.)

   For a FlashMirror job, no file updates are written to the
   destination volume while the job is stopped.

   You can changes some settings on a stopped job; see

   Modifying a Stopped Job

    for details.

Actions: Reverse

   Swaps the primary volume and secondary volume in a FlashMirror.

   Note that reversing a mirror immediately reverses the data access
   policies, which can lead to access changes unless you copied the
   access policies from the original data.

Actions: Transition
   Effectively changes a FlashMirror job into a move. The Avere
   cluster completes any current synchronization, stops updating files
   in the primary location (the "source"), and moves the namespace
   junction to reference the secondary location (the former
   "destination").

   This action can be used only on FlashMirror jobs.

Actions: Modify
   Use this button to change settings on a FlashMove or FlashMirror
   job that is stopped or paused. Details about this feature are
   described in

   Modifying a Stopped Job

   , below.

Modifying a Stopped Job

While a job is stopped or paused, some settings can be changed. Select
the job and click Modify on the Actions menu.


Settings that can be changed on a stopped job include:

Overwrite mode

Mirror synchronization policy

File logging (enable/disable)

Log file name (you can start a new log file by replacing the old one
here)

Sparse file checking

Primary node selection

Notes

SMB administrator username  (source and destination)

Understanding the Job Details Data

Click the triangle at the left side of a job ID to show details about
the job and its status.


This image shows a FlashMove job that is progressing normally.

The details view shows several types of information:

Basic job information - for example, parameters you set when you
created the job

Job status information - which node is being used, and what phase the
job is in

Data movement information - amount of data in the job and rate of
movement

Basic Job Information

Basic job information includes the following:

Move Job or Mirror Job (1) gives a synopsis of the job. It shows the
source and destination volumes, with an arrow between them pointing to
the destination.

Affected vserver junction is populated with the customer-facing path
(namespace junction path) if the source is a junction.

Created shows when a job was created.

Started shows the most recent start time for the job.

Completed is populated with the finish time when a job completes.

File Logging (4) shows either enabled or disabled. If logging is
turned on, the file name for this job is listed in File Logging. (You
can customize the log file name when you create or modify the job;
this screenshot shows a default name.)

Note (5) shows any text entered in the Note field when the job was
created or modified.

Overwrite Mode (8) displays the chosen setting for replacing
destination files with the same names as files from the source.

Mirror Sync Policy (not shown in this screenshot but appears near (8)
for FlashMirror jobs) shows the chosen synchronization strategy for
the job.

Job Status Information

Node (2) shows which of the cluster's FXT or vFXT nodes is processing
the data management job.

If you specified a preferred node by using the

Primary node selection

 option when creating the job, that node will show here unless a
failover has occurred. If you did not specify a node, a cluster node
is assigned automatically.

Operational State (3) gives the current activity in the data
management job. A data management job moves through several states in
the course of a normal job.

The operational state message is similar to the Status value in the
job's main table row, but operational state represents what the system
is doing without implying why it is doing that. For example,
Operational State can show Paused in several different situations.
Depending on the context, the job Status might be Paused by
administrator, Paused due to error, or Paused, confirmation requested.

Recently Moved (near (5)) is populated during an active FlashMove job
or during the initial synchronization of a FlashMirror job. It shows
the path and filename of a recently processed file. (An empty field
does not necessarily indicate an error.)

Status Message (7) can be empty, or can show a variety of messages. If
the job failed to start because of an error, the cause is usually
shown here.

For some kinds of errors, Avere OS's Data Management system can
proceed and move the rest of the data before requiring intervention.
In that case, the status message explains that the job is still
running, but there were errors with one or more files, and an Error
Report button appears. Read

Job Error Report

 to learn more.

Data Movement Information

The Data Movement table (6) describes the data being moved or
mirrored.

Initial Scan shows the amount of data detected in the source volume.

Out-of-Sync is populated if one of the move or mirror volumes has
become unavailable and there are new or changed files that have not
yet been copied to the destination.

Activity Monitor shows the approximate rate of transfer.

Job Error Report

If a FlashMove or FlashMirror job encounters non-critical errors in
copying data, it can skip the problem files or directories and retry
them after the other files have been handled. After transferring all
of the uncomplicated files, the job moves to paused status instead of
completed.

An administrator can review the error report and address the file
problems so that the job can complete. This can happen while the job
is active and transferring files, or after the job has paused.

When a job is proceeding with errors, the Status column shows a normal
working state (moving data or mirroring data) but with an exclamation
point alert icon instead of the normal green check mark icon.


To view the error report, click the View button. The report opens in a
pop-up window over the Data Management page.


The system skips files only for common errors related to individual
files or directories - for example, a conflicting filename, unexpected
type, or noncompliant name (including names with invalid characters).
This system also can skip files with minor file permission errors and
hardware I/O errors that prevent reading or writing.

If problems are found with the system infrastructure, or if the job is
attempting to write to a full disk or read-only filesystem, the job
pauses immediately.

The job also pauses if more than 200 file errors have been logged.

Job Status and Operational State Messages

The Data Management page reports Job Status and Operational State for
each job in the table. This section explains some values commonly seen
in a typical FlashMove or FlashMirror job.

Job Statuses Explained

Understanding some of the terms seen in the detailed status messages
can be helpful when monitoring or troubleshooting data management
jobs.

Mirroring
   The process of transferring data from one volume to another is
   referred to as mirroring, even when it's part of a FlashMove job. A
   move job copies files from the source to the destination as its
   first step.

Synchronized
   After the initial file copy from source to destination, the volumes
   must be kept in sync if any files are updated on the source. This
   phase is called synchronized. A FlashMirror job stays in this state
   indefinitely, but a FlashMove job progresses out of this state and
   into transition.

Transition
   The transition step permanently changes the cluster's reference to
   point to the destination volume instead of the source. Any cached
   files now are associated with the destination volume and will be
   updated on the destination instead of the source. This is the
   second part of a FlashMove operation, after copying files.

   A FlashMirror job can be "transitioned", which ends the mirror job
   by discontinuing updates to the primary volume and modifying any
   namespace junctions that pointed to the original "source" path to
   point to the secondary volume instead. Files in the cluster cache
   will be updated on the secondary volume only.

Typical FlashMove Progression

As it goes from a newly created job to a completed job, a typical
FlashMove operation transitions through these states and statuses.

      Description  Status  Operational State  Job was created with the
initial state stopped  Waiting to be started  Stopped  Administrator
has started the job  Starting mover  Changeover in progress  Data is
being migrated  Moving data  Moving  All files have been copied to the
destination  Starting transition  Synchronized  Transitioning from
source to destination  Removing mirror  Switched primary  Repopulating
source  Updating exports  Flushing caches  Removing temporary files
Updating junctions  Changeover in progress  Changeover in progress
Changeover in progress  Changeover in progress  Changeover in progress
Changeover in progress  Changeover in progress  Transition is done
Move completed  Complete

You might not see all of these status messages or states for every
job, and progression is not necessarily one way. For example, a
transition process can time out if the system has trouble reaching one
of the core filers. In that case, the job returns to a synchronized
state so that client service is maintained, and automatically retries
the transition later.

Typical FlashMirror Progression

These are typical states and statuses shown during the lifecycle of a
FlashMirror job.

      Description  Status  Operational State  Job was created with the
initial state stopped  Waiting to be started  Stopped  Administrator
has started the job  Starting mirror  Changeover in progress  Data is
being copied to the mirror  Mirroring data  Mirroring  All files have
been copied from the source to the mirror  Mirroring data
Synchronized  Administrator discontinues the mirror (stop button)
Suspending demux  Changeover in progress  Mirror is stopped  Stopped
Stopped
