Prerequisites for using FlashMove or FlashMirror

To use the FlashMove or FlashMirror features, make sure your cluster
meets the requirements outlined in this article.

License Requirements

Make sure you have a valid license for the feature you want to use,
and that the license has been installed on your Avere cluster. The
cluster needs a valid license for FlashMove, FlashMirror, or both.

Read

Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses

 to learn how to add a feature license to your system.

Core Filer Requirements

Any storage system that you want to use in a FlashMove or FlashMirror
job must be defined as a core filer in the Avere cluster. (To learn
more about core filers, read

Working With Core Filers

 and

Core Filer > Manage Core Filers

 in the Avere OS

Configuration Guide

.)

These requirements apply to the core filers involved in a data
management job:

Export - Each core filer must have at least one available export (for
example, / for cloud core filers)

Cache Policy - Each core filer must use the cache policy Full Caching,
or a custom policy with the following settings:  Core Filer
Verification must be set to Never  Caching Mode must be set to
Read/Write  A writeback delay must be set  Local Directories must be
enabled (Note that changing this setting requires all clients to
remount the cluster.)  Read Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies in the
Avere OS Configuration Guide for details.

Global Namespace - The source core filer must be associated with a
Global Namespace vserver.  Global Namespace (GNS) is the default type
when creating a new vserver. GNS vservers allow the administrator to
create a virtual pseudofilesystem that clients see instead of the
actual data structure on the core filer. (An option also exists to
create a simple vserver, which is a legacy configuration that cannot
be used with Avere OS's data management features.)  With a GNS
vserver, you can create a junction in the client namespace that
references the location of the source data. Clients access the same
virtual path during and after the data migration. At the end of a
FlashMove job, the namespace junction is automatically changed to
reference the new location.  Note that the destination core filer must
not be associated with a namespace junction. This restriction helps to
prevent circular references in the client namespace. Read Maintaining
A Consistent Namespace to learn more.  It is possible - but not
recommended - to create a FlashMove job with a core filer that is
defined in the cluster but not linked to any vserver. Without a
vserver, the cluster cannot provide access to the core filer's data,
so debugging options are limited, and SMB ACLs cannot be migrated
using this technique. Avere Systems strongly recommends configuring
vservers for each core filer used in a data management job.

Cloud Snapshots - If you use a cloud core filer that has an automatic
cloud snapshot policy set, snapshots will be disabled for the duration
of the job. You must acknowledge and approve this condition when you
create the job, but you do not need to change the core filer settings.
See Job Creation Errors and Warnings for details.

SMB ACL Requirements

If you are migrating directories that are configured to use ACLs for
SMB access, the following additional requirements apply:

Both the source user and the destination user must be Active Directory
administrators (at minimum).

The source and destination core filers must be joined to the same
Active Directory domain, or to a trusted domain.

Both the source and destination core filers must have existing SMB
shares that are configured to access the same core filer directory as
the core filer export.
