Tips and Troubleshooting Information for Data Management Jobs

This article includes tips for working with the Avere OS Data
Management tools, and helps explain alerts and messages that you might
see during and after a FlashMove or FlashMirror job.

Removing a Source Directory After a Move

A FlashMove operation does not delete data from the source directory
when it finishes. The data remains on the core filer, but the Avere
cluster no longer can access the original location because the
junction that points to it was moved to reference the new core filer.

Note: If your source directory was an Avere-managed cloud object
  store, only an  Avere cluster can access this data.To reuse or
  remove the leftover data in the cloud, do one of the following:

  Create a junction to a parent of the moved data path, and use that
  junction to navigate to the moved directory.

  Use a different Avere cluster to create a junction to the original
  source path.

  Delete the data by destroying the storage (if you are not otherwise
  using the cloud volume).

You can delete the data from the source by following these steps:

If one does not already exist, create a junction in the Avere cluster
that maps to the parent directory of the move source.  For example, if
you moved the directory sales/2016/, create a junction to sales/

Use a client machine to navigate to the sales/ directory and use a
system command to remove the subdirectory 2016/. (For example, use a
command like rm -r 2016/* on a Linux system.)

For a non-cloud source volume, you also have the option to mount the
source storage export directly and use another method to delete the
data.

Post-Migration Processing

After a data management job finishes, the Avere cluster does some
background work on the migrated files to ensure that they are updated
with their new core filer's caching policy.

While this filesystem maintenance work is going on, you cannot start
another data management job that uses these files. If you attempt to
create a FlashMove or FlashMirror with one of the affected paths as
the source or destination, the Add New Data Management Job wizard
gives an error.

The post-migration processing takes at least 15 minutes, but can take
several hours depending on the amount of data moved. While it is going
on, a status message appears in the Cluster Activity panel at the
bottom of each page of the Avere Control Panel.

Data Management Job Conditions

This section describes some of the status messages that can appear on
the Avere cluster Dashboard page.

Temporary Files Alerts

These messages indicate that interim files on the destination core
filer were not properly cleaned up. This can happen because a non-
retryable error occurred, or because the background job to delete the
temporary files was aborted.

You can manually remove the files directly from the core filer, but
removing them is typically unnecessary.

Examples:

"Data Management job <job_number> has left temporary files on the core
filer at: core_filer_name:path/._avere_pen_job_identifier."

"Data Management job <job_number> failed to remove the temporary files
directory on the destination core filer. You can manually remove the
temporary files directory by directly mounting the core filer and
deleting the temporary files directory and all of its contents."

Transition Error Alerts

As the last step in a FlashMove job, the Avere cluster changes its
cached files to reference the destination path instead of the source
path. This step is referred to as transition.

A problem in this phase can cause inconsistencies between the core
filer data and the data in the Avere cache. In some cases,
intervention by Avere Global Services is needed to force the
directories to repopulate correctly.

Examples:

"Data Management job <job_number> encountered an issue during
transition: transition did not complete. Status: Could not initiate
transition due to destination export being inaccessible. Check
destination core filer status and try the transition again."

The alert above means that the content was not successfully moved to
the destination.

A FlashMove job will automatically retry the transition.

A FlashMirror job will return to the mirroring state; you must retry
the transition by selecting the job and choosing the Transition
action.

Path Error Alerts

These alerts indicate errors in changing the cluster cache files to
reference the correct directories.

Examples:

"Data Management job <job_number> has completed, but the source path
experienced problems during the operation. This may affect future
attempts to create a junction directly to the source path. Please
contact Avere Global Services if you have any further issues."

"Data Management job <job_number> has been manually aborted, but the
destination path experienced problems during the operation. This may
affect future attempts to create a junction directly to the
destination path. Please contact Avere Global Services if you have any
further issues."

If you plan to create a junction to the path listed in the alert after
this failure, contact Avere Global Services for help to make sure that
the metadata for this path is in a good state.

File Comparison and Preserving Metadata

This section gives tips about how Avere OS determines whether or not
two files are identical, and what to expect in metadata for moved or
mirrored files.

Comparing Files

You can configure how Avere OS decides when to overwrite files on the
destination as part of a FlashMove or FlashMirror operation. (These
options are described in detail in

Overwrite Mode

 as part of creating a new data management job.)

The Always overwrite mode does not compare files from the source with
similar files on the destination, it simply overwrites all destination
files with the source files.

There are two comparison options:

Filehandle, size, or modification time changed, and

Size or modification time changed

The first option includes comparing file handles in addition to file
size and modification time. File handles are unique identifiers
assigned by the core filer that stay the same throughout a file's
lifetime. During a FlashMove or FlashMirror job, the Avere cluster
creates a mapping between the file handle on the source and the file
handle for the corresponding file on the destination. So if this
cluster has previously moved a particular file, the cluster can
consult its internal mapping to help determine whether or not a file
is the same.

The other comparison values are standard file attributes: file size
and modification time (mtime).

When copying files, Avere OS copies the modification time along with
the file, as described in the next section.

Because Avere OS uses an NFSv3-compatible approach for writing to
cloud object storage, cloud core filers are treated the same way as
hardware NAS systems.

Metadata Implications for Migrated Files

Administrators frequently want to know how FlashMove or FlashMirror
affects timestamps for the copied files.

In general, the Avere cluster preserves file attributes when moving
the file from the cluster cache to back-end storage, and the same is
true when files are copied as part of a data management job. In other
words, a file stored on the source core filer and its counterpart in
the destination core filer should have the same file attributes. These
values also are kept synchronized if changes are made to the file in
the cluster cache.

Specifically, Avere OS preserves these file attributes:

access mode bits (file permissions)

atime (last access time)

mtime (last content modification time)

UID (user identifier)

GID (group identifier)

file length

SMB ACLs (access control lists - preserved for SMB-enabled data if
Preserve CIFS ACLs is configured)

Avere OS does not preserve ctime (change time) because NFSv3 does not
support setting the ctime attribute, and it does not preserve capacity
data, which varies by storage system.

Note that if you do not need strict atime or mtime synchronization,
some advanced options can be set to improve performance. Contact Avere
Systems to learn more.
