Working With Core Filers

Core Filers are the back-end storage component of an Avere Edge Filer.

Core filers typically are either a NAS storage appliance or a cloud
object store, but they also can be a clustered filesystem or other
arrangement.

An NFS-based system must meet these requirements:

   Serves NFS client requests over NFSv3

   Exposes data over NFS exports

A non-NFS system (like a cloud object store) must use the S3 protocol.

An Avere cluster can serve as the front end for up to 50 core filers.
(Some limitations apply; contact your Avere sales team for specific
information about supporting large numbers of core filers.) Each core
filer is treated as a single dataset by the Avere cluster.

Each core filer in the system has an administrative name that is used
for quick identification. This name does not have to be the same as
its network name - for example, a core filer with the domain name
filer1.example.com could be named filer1 in the system.

Note: Earlier versions of Avere OS used the term

  mass

   instead of core filer to refer to back-end storage volumes. Some
  API commands and log messages still refer to core filers as

  masses

  .

You can monitor core filer status by using the Core Filers tab on the
dashboard.

Use the Core Filer section of the Avere Control Panel Settings tab to
create and configure core filers for your cluster.

Before Defining a Core Filer

Before adding a core filer to the Avere OS cluster, make sure that it
is compatible with the system and configured appropriately.

The list of supported core filers is included in

Appendix C: Supported Core Filer Types

;  contact Avere Global Services if you have questions.

Read the information below to learn about creating a cloud core filer,
and about configuration for core filers that will be accessed over
SMB.

Configuring A Cloud Container As A Core Filer

Before starting the New Cloud Core Filer wizard, you must create an
instance of cloud or local object storage (that is, create a bucket or
container on your object store) to use as a core filer. Then use the
wizard to define the core filer in the cluster.

Configuring Storage for SMB Access

You might need to customize some settings on your storage systems
before adding it to your  Avere OS cluster. For example, to support
SMB access (from Microsoft Windows clients), some changes to the
storage system can be necessary.

Note that some storage systems (listed in

Appendix C: Supported Core Filer Types

 ) must be added  as two separate core filers, one for SMB access and
one for NFS access. SMB clients should access the SMB version of the
core filer over a junction that serves only SMB clients. NFS clients
should access the NFS version of the core filer over a junction that
serves only NFS clients.

This kind of configuration is optional for some types of storage. For
some types of core filers, you can optionally set up a separate core
filer definition to handle only NFS traffic, which avoids exposing NFS
requests to the overhead of access cache processing. Contact Avere
Global Services for more information.

The table in

Appendix C: Supported Core Filer Types

 lists which storage systems require or permit this kind of
configuration.

Adding a New Core Filer

Before starting to configure the core filer on the cluster, make sure
you have the following information.

For a NAS core filer:

The fully qualified domain name of the core filer (for example,
nas1.example.com).  Note that you must use the domain name instead of
an IP address in order to access the core filer with SMB.

For a cloud core filer:

A valid and active license for FlashCloud on this cluster. Read
Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses for more information.

An existing credential for your cloud storage provider, or the access
and private keys to create a new one.

The name of an existing cloud storage container that will be used as a
core filer. The container can be empty, or it can contain Avere-
managed data that you still are able to decrypt. (You cannot use a
cloud bucket to import non-Avere data.)

Encryption details - whether or not to encrypt the core filer, and the
type of key storage used. If using KMIP, you should have a key server
set up before creating the core filer; read Configuring KMIP for an
Avere Cluster to learn how.

The Add New Core Filer wizard guides you through the steps to define a
new storage volume. Start the wizard by clicking the Create label from
the Manage Core Filer page.

The steps are different for NAS core filers and for cloud storage.
They are explained in detail in these two documents:

Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer

Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer
