Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

Core filers expose

exports

 that determine how clients access data from that storage system. The
clusters' vservers use the core filer exports and the filesystem
junctions defined in the global namespace (if enabled) to manage how
files from back-end storage are presented to clients.

Avere OS uses

export policies

 to provide access control for data on the core filers. An export
policy is a set of rules determining how clients are permitted to
access data from that export.

For example, an export policy could contain rules that allow clients
from a specific netgroup to have read-only access to the export's
files, and disable root squash, while clients from another group have
read/write access and all client requests are considered to come from
the user "nobody."

Export rules also can include using Kerberos authentication instead of
or in addition to the default UNIX/SYS authentication.

Tips for Configuring Access

Client access rules can be set at two levels:

On the core filer export

On a global namespace junction

If you do not assign an export policy to a junction, that junction
uses the export policy assigned to its core filer export.

When setting access policies, remember to use more restrictive
policies closer to the root of the export. That is, there is no point
in restricting access to "/dir1/dir2/" if you have granted access to
"/dir1" or to "/"

Creating and Using Export Policies

The procedure for defining rules and customizing export policies
involves both the Export Rules page, where you can define rules, and
the pages where they can be applied to exports or junctions.  and the
Export Policies page in the VServer section of the Avere Control
Panel.

The VServer > Export Rules page allows you to create or modify rules
and policies.

The VServer > Export Policies  page allows you to choose which policy
to use for each export.

The VServer > Namespace page allows you to choose an explicit policy
for a junction instead of inheriting the policy that was applied to
the junction's export.
