Core Filer > Cloud Encryption Settings


The Cloud Encryption Settings page allows you to change encryption key
settings for a core filer that uses cloud storage.

Note: You cannot enable or disable back-end data encryption on a
  cloud core filer after creating it.

Select a cloud core filer that has encryption enabled to show the page
contents.

Cloud Encryption Store

The Cloud encryption store selector allows you to switch among key
store types. Choose a simple key store, which is managed locally in
the cluster, or choose a key store from a KMIP server.

Read

Configuring KMIP for an Avere Cluster

 to learn more about using KMIP.

Local Key Store

The Local Key Store panel shows information about the encryption key
store that you used to configure the selected core filer. (This panel
is not relevant if you are using a KMIP key server.)

Use the Redownload Recovery File button to obtain a new copy of the
key recovery file that you used when encrypting the core filer. The
recovery file is encrypted with the same passphrase that was used to
create it.

Generating a New Master Key

You have the option to add a new simple encryption key for this core
filer. If you create a new key, newly stored objects will be encrypted
under this key. However, objects that were previously stored still
require the old key for decryption.

To create a new master key, enter a key recovery passphrase in the two
text fields and press the Generate Key and Download File button. All
existing key files will be included within the new file.

Caution: Do not lose the downloaded key file; there is no way to
  reset the encryption on the core filer storage without the keys. If
  you lose the key file, data on the core filer will be permanently
  inaccessible.

To confirm and complete the master key change, upload the file that
you just downloaded by choosing it in the Upload key recovery file
field and clicking Activate Key.

The system verifies the uploaded file and installs the new master key
as the active encryption key for this core filer.
