VServer > CIFS


The CIFS page lets you turn on SMB access for a particular vserver.
SMB (which is called CIFS in configuration settings for historical
reasons) is required to allow Windows clients to access NFS-controlled
storage volumes.

Note that many other systems and utilities must be configured and
turned on for your vserver before you can enable SMB from this page.
Read

Configuring SMB Access

 for more complete information about configuring and enabling SMB on
your system.

Enabling SMB

If your cluster has more than one vserver, choose the vserver to
modify from the drop-down list in the left menu.

The Enable CIFS checkbox can be used to turn SMB access on if the
required setup is in place. If you want to disable SMB, clear the
checkbox.

The first time you enable SMB on a particular vserver, you must supply
the information in

Creating an SMB Server

. After the first time, you can use the Enable CIFS checkbox to
disable or enable SMB for the vserver without changing the
configuration.

SMB2

Check Enable SMB2 to use SMB version 2 protocol. Avere OS supports
both SMB version 1 and SMB version 2.

When SMB2 is enabled, SMB (version 1) clients use SMB, and SMB2
clients can use either SMB2 or SMB.

If you do not check this box, the vserver only uses the older SMB
version 1 protocol, and SMB2 clients must use the older SMB protocol.

Creating an SMB Server

When you turn on SMB for the first time on a particular vserver, Avere
OS creates a machine account for the vserver in the Active Directory
domain. This machine account is also called an SMB server.

Use the following fields in the Configuration panel to define the
required settings for a new SMB server.

Server Name - Enter the name that clients will see in the Name for the
CIFS server (the NetBIOS name) field. The default is the name of the
cluster.  The name must be between 1 and 15 characters in length and
can include only the characters A-Z, a-z, 0-9, and - (hyphen).
Although older Active Directory servers (before Windows 2000) can
include the period character (.) in server names, Avere recommends not
using this character in the NetBIOS name to avoid possible
compatibility issues. (Windows NT® AD servers allow periods but not as
the first character in the name.)  If you want to use the NetBIOS name
to access the vserver, add a DNS server Host (A) record on your DNS
server for each IP address assigned to the vserver.  Changing the
NetBIOS name after it has been configured requires an AD administrator
username and password.

Administrative User Name - Enter the name of an existing AD
administrator account  in the Admin username field.  An administrator
username and password is required the first time you set up SMB on
this vserver, then only if you change certain properties like the
NetBIOS or OU name.

Administrative Password - Enter the password for the administrative
user in the Admin password field. (Leave this blank if the AD
administrator account in the previous field has no password.)

Organizational Unit (optional) - If you want to use an Active
Directory OU for the vserver's machine account, enter the name in the
Organizational Unit field.  Note the format for specifying the OU in
Avere OS; the OU name elements must be specified in reverse order from
the distinguished name and canonical names. Example:      CN
ad.example.com/ou1/ou2/TEST  DN
CN=Test,OU=ou2,OU=ou1,DC=ad,DC=example,DC=com  Avere OS Organizational
Unit setting  ou2/ou1

Click Submit to save the changes and create the SMB server.

After this vserver has joined the AD domain, the Machine Account panel
will show the fully qualified domain name of the AD domain, the status
"JOINED", and a distinguished name based on the netBIOS name
specified. Also, the active directory server will include a machine
account with the netBIOS name given to the vserver's SMB server.

Additional SMB Settings

Additional SMB options can be configured on this page. These settings
are not required when you first enable SMB on a vserver.

Note: To change the Native Identity or Read-Only Optimization
  settings, you must restart SMB. There are three steps:

  Change the setting and click Submit to save the change.

  Uncheck the Enable CIFS box, and click Submit to disable SMB for the
  vserver.

  Check the Enable CIFS box, and click Submit to re-enable SMB.

Native Identity (optional) - When using ACLs, the Native Identity
feature allows an SMB-enabled vserver to read the identities of users
and groups as defined natively by the NAS storage system, instead of
requiring a user/group mapping on the Avere cluster.

The method to use for user authentication is specified in the
Directory Services configuration, which is part of the the Cluster
settings section.

You also must configure Kerberos constrained delegation when using
native identity with NAS core filers - read

Native Identity

 for details.

You must restart SMB before the changed Native Identity setting takes
effect.

Read-Only Optimization (optional) - Check this box to enable
performance optimization on read-only SMB shares. This optimization is
only effective for vservers where all of the SMB shares are read-only.

You must restart SMB before the changed optimization setting takes
effect.

Guest User (optional) - The Guest account field specifies the username
to assign to users that do not appear in the password database. This
option applies only to SMB shares that allow guest access. The default
value is nobody.

Local Groups Configuration

The Local Groups setting allows administrators to create or mirror
core-filer-specific access groups in the Avere cluster.

Using this feature is only sometimes necessary. If you do not need to
grant special access to core filers, use Active Directory groups and
leave this configuration empty.

Two types of local groups are currently supported: Administrators and
Run as root.

Administrators

Windows users in the Administrators group are recognized as
administrators on the core filer.

This local group allows core filer administrators to grant the same
type of access that members of the AD Domain Administrators group
have. For example, you can use this group to give a user
administrator-level access to a particular core filer without adding
that user to the AD Domain Administrators group (which affects all
core filers).

In the case of filesystem recovery or domain transition operations,
this group can be used to quickly grant access to a new set of
administrators. The Windows SID for this group is a well-known value
across all domains, but the SID for the Active Directory Domain
Administrators group is different for different domains. Adding the
new administrators to this local administrators group allows them to
access all of the core filers in the cluster without having to update
each AD ACL in each domain.

Run As Root

Run as root gives Windows users in this group root privileges on the
core filer.

This option should be used if system access control lists (SACLs) must
be modified, because some core filer vendors allow only members of
this local group to modify SACLs. Without this setting, it is possible
for a SACL modification cached in the cluster to be rejected by the
core filer.

If you do not need to modify SACLs, do not use this setting.

Best Practices

In general, group solutions that use Active Directory exclusively are
easier to maintain than configurations that mix AD groups and Local
Groups. Changing group membership on the core filer does not
automatically change the settings in the Avere cluster, so these
settings must be kept in sync manually.

When Local Groups must be used, the recommended practice is to set the
same group membership for the Avere vserver’s Local Groups and all of
the vserver’s core filers.  This practice avoids possible confusion or
collisions caused by attempting to replicate individual core filer
groups in one Local Groups setting.

Adding Users

Click the Modify button to add users or user groups to one of these
to the *Administrators* or *Run as root* group.

Two formats can be used to specify group members:

Windows usernames or group names, including the domain prefix (for
example, NY22\JoeB)

Security IDs (for example, S-1-0-0)

Separate multiple entries with commas.

The Revert button discards current changes in this group and returns
to the last saved setting.

Use the Submit button to save changes in both groups.
