Administration > Software Update

Avere Control Panel includes controls for downloading and installing
new software on cluster nodes.


Avere OS uses an alternate boot image for software updates. When you
install a new Avere OS software distribution, that distribution is
installed on a second boot partition without interrupting the node's
normal operation. To switch to the newly installed software, the
system reboots using the alternate partition image.

After switching the active image, the previous software remains and
becomes the alternate partition. If you experience problems with the
new software, you can back out the changes by switching back to the
alternate image. (Note, however, that some software releases include
features that are not reversible after installation - if your current
system includes one of these features, you cannot downgrade the
installation.)

Updating Avere OS Software

The process for installing a new software distribution includes these
steps:

Obtain new Avere OS software and install it in the alternate image
partition.  Use the Download New Software Image section if you want to
download software from a URL directly onto the cluster alternate
image.  Use the Upload New Software Image From This Workstation
section if you want to upload software from the machine you are using
to connect to the Avere Control Panel.  After the software package is
loaded onto the cluster, it will appear in the Alternate image
description.

Click the Activate alternate image button to reboot the cluster nodes
using the new software.  After the primary node finishes activating
its software, it triggers updates for the other nodes in the cluster.
Each node must download the software package from the primary node and
then activate it.  The update process can take more than a minute per
node. The Update status section shows the progress of software updates
among the nodes.

The Activate in high-availability mode checkbox is enabled by default
if HA is active on the cluster. HA mode coordinates node reboots so
that HA partners do not become unavailable at the same time.
