VServer > Namespace

The Namespace settings page is used to configure

junctions

, which map the  client-visible namespace to the back-end storage
filesystem.


Junctions are part of creating a global namespace (GNS), sometimes
called a pseudo-filesystem. Read

Using a Global Namespace

 for information about designing your GNS and setting up the
infrastructure necessary to support namespace mapping.

If your cluster has more than one vserver, use the selector in the
sidebar to choose which vserver to show.

The table lists existing junctions for this vserver (1).


You can sort the table by any column heading (2).

From this page, you can:

Create a new junction (3)

Delete or suspend an existing junction (4)

Modify an existing junction (4)

Using Junctions with Cloud Storage

Because cloud storage is structured differently from NAS storage,
creating junctions for cloud core filers is somewhat different from
creating junctions for conventional NFS network-attached storage
systems.

Differences between NAS and Cloud Storage Exports

Network-attached hardware storage and cloud storage are fundamentally
different. NAS storage uses a hierarchical filesystem structure to
store data in directories and files. Cloud storage uses an object
storage approach that stores data in a flat filesystem and relies on
object metadata to locate files.

On a NAS core filer, an administrator defines externally visible
exports by using the core filer's operating system. The export paths
correspond to actual NFS filesystem paths on the core filer. Avere OS
reads the exports defined in the core filer's operating system to
provide options for creating junctions.

On a cloud core filer, only one export (/) is available to the Avere
system. This export  corresponds to the cloud bucket that contains all
of the stored objects in a flat filesystem.

Creating Virtual Subdirectories for Cloud Storage

To provide more flexibility to clients accessing cloud storage through
an Avere cluster, Avere OS allows administrators to create a
hierarchical pseudofilesystem in the GNS. That is, you can create
subdirectories in global namespace junctions that do not actually
exist on the cloud core filer. This is configured in the

Export Subdirectory

 field when creating a junction.

Avere OS also allows you to set different access permissions (

export policies

) on the virtual subdirectories, giving you the ability to protect
sets of files on the cloud core filer from open access. This feature
gives administrators the ability to expose subsets of files stored in
a cloud object store without providing access to the entire exported
container. Use the

Junction Export Policy

 setting to configure access to virtual subdirectories. (Read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

 to learn more about export policies.)

Creating A Junction

Before creating a new junction, make sure that you know the two paths
that you want to connect:

The path to access on the back-end filesystem (if it is a NAS storage
system)

The user-facing path that you want to map to the back-end directory

Make sure that the vserver where you want to create the junction is
selected in the sidebar.

Click the Add New Junction button.  Add New Junction panel

In the Namespace Path field, enter the GNS path for the new junction.
This path defines the virtual filesystem that clients see when they
access this vserver.  The value entered in this field must be an
absolute path; that is, it must start at root (/) of the global
namespace (client-facing virtual filesystem) and work its way down.
For example, to create a GNS user directory named seamus within a top-
level directory named usr, enter the path /usr/seamus in this field.

In the Core Filer Admin Name list, choose the back-end storage system
to use for this junction.

From the Core Filer Export drop-down list, choose the export (either
an NFS export or cloud core filer bucket) that clients will access at
the virtual directory in the Namespace Path field.  Ensure that the
core filer storage export has appropriate access policies in place,
and will correctly allow or deny access to various clients and users.
Refer to Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports and the VServer >
Export Policies and VServer > Export Rules sections to learn more
about configuring access.

Optionally, in the Export Subdirectory field, enter the name of a
subdirectory of the core filer export.  If you enter a value in this
field, the namespace path will point to this subdirectory instead of
to the core filer export directory. Because the export subdirectory is
relative to the namespace path, do not enter a leading backslash (/).
If the subdirectory does not exist, the Avere software can create it.
Make sure the Auto-create Subdirectory box is checked.  For a cloud
core filer, this option creates a subdirectory in the global namespace
filesystem only. No subdirectories are created in the cloud bucket.

Use the Export Policy menu if you want to customize the client access
policy used for this junction. By default, a junction inherits the
access policy that is set on its parent junction. Setting an explicit
policy on the junction overrides the inherited access policy.  This
setting can be important for core filers that only provide one export,
at the root of the filesystem (/). Cloud core filers and some hardware
solutions export only the root directory. The junction-level export
policy feature allows administrators to create a virtual subdirectory
in the global namespace and assign more restrictive access permissions
to that subdirectory than to the root export on the core filer. If you
do not customize the access policy for a virtual subdirectory, you
must grant clients the access privileges they need on the root export
so that the subdirectory can inherit the necessary privileges. This
configuration gives clients access to every file stored on the core
filer.

Configure SMB access control (advanced option):  If this junction will
be used for SMB (sometimes called CIFS), configure the junction's SMB
access control method. Check the box labeled Advanced to show the SMB
configuration options.  SMB configuration options  You must also
enable SMB access for this vserver. Use the VServer > CIFS and VServer
> CIFS Shares pages to set up SMB.

From the CIFS access control drop-down list, choose the access control
method to use for SMB clients on the junction. You must choose the
method that is used on the core filer.  Choose POSIX Mode Bits for
UNIX-style filesystems.  Choose CIFS ACLs for NTFS filesystems.  For a
cloud core filer, you can choose either POSIX or ACL security style,
but you must make sure the infrastructure exists on the cloud storage.
Use the options in the Permissions field to set the security style.
(An NFSv4 ACL option appears in the menu, but selecting it is not
recommended.)

Refer to

Selecting an Access Control Method for SMB

 for information about SMB access-control mechanisms.

If you chose CIFS ACLs and your core filer is a NAS system, you must
specify an existing SMB share on the back-end core filer. ACL
communication takes place between the SMB share on the vserver and the
SMB share on the core filer. Enter the name in the Core Filer Share
Name field.  Optionally, you can specify a subdirectory of the SMB
share by using the Core Filer Share Subdir field. The SMB subdirectory
is relative to the namespace path, so do not enter a leading backslash
(/).  If you enter a subdirectory value, this junction will point SMB
clients to this subdirectory instead of to the main namespace path
listed at the top of the panel.  The core filer paths for NFS and SMB
access must reference the same directory. That is, the values in the
Core filer share name and Core filer share subdir fields in this
section must access the same directory as in the Core filer export and
Export subdir fields at the top of the panel.

Click the Submit button.

Repeat this procedure until all required exports on all core filers
are available on the desired namespace paths.

Modifying a Junction

Note: You cannot modify an existing junction’s name. If you need to
  change the name of a junction, delete the original junction as
  described in

  Deleting a Junction

   and create a replacement junction using the new name and the same
  core filer export.

To modify an existing junction:

Select the vserver containing the junction that you want to change.

In the table of junctions at the top of the page, identify the
junction that you want to change. Click the Modify button in the
Actions column of the junction’s row.  The Modify Junction panel
appears.

If you want to change the junction’s CIFS configuration, select the
Advanced checkbox to display fields for CIFS access.

Make changes in the fields and drop-down lists in the same way as
adding a junction, as described above in Creating A Junction.
Modifications can be made on only one junction at a time.

After making changes, click Submit.

Suspending a Junction

The Suspend feature lets you disable a junction without permanently
removing it. This feature allows you to prevent access to a directory
or an export without causing failures in the cluster.

Core filers and vservers also can be suspended.

Use the Suspend Junction label in the right column of the row for the
junction that you want to disable. After disabling the junction, an
Unsuspend button appears in the table so that you can re-enable the
junction.


Deleting a Junction

Deleting a junction removes the user-space pointer to the core filer
volume. It does not remove any directories or files on the core filer.

To delete a junction, click the Delete button in the Actions column of
the junction's table row.

A pop-up window appears, asking if you are sure you want to delete the
junction. Choose OK to permanently remove the junction.

A message confirms that the junction has been deleted.
