Node Details

The Node Details page shows individual information for an individual
FXT node and allows you to customize some settings for the selected
node.

Note: The Node Details page does not appear in the sidebar list. You
  can access it from certain other settings pages by clicking the node
  name link. It also is linked from the node table on the main
  dashboard.Settings pages that have links to the Node Details page:

  Cluster > FXT Nodes

  Cluster > IPMI


Use the node selector (2) to choose a different node to display. The
Node List link (1) returns you to the FXT Nodes page.

Editing Node Settings

A few node-specific settings can be made on the Node Details page.
They appear at the top of the page in the Edit Node section.

If you change a setting in this section, use the Submit button to save
changes, or the Revert button to abandon unsaved changes.

Customizing the Node Name

Edit the Node Name field to manually change the node's name.

If automatic node naming is turned on in the Cluster Setup page, the
most recent name change is kept. That is, if you change the name on
the Node Details page and then turn on automatic naming, the node will
be automatically renamed; however, if automatic naming is already
turned on and you update a node name on the node details page, the
custom name is saved.

Node names can contain alphanumeric characters, underscores (_), and
dashes (-); they cannot contain spaces or other special characters.
Names must be at least three characters long.

Custom IPMI Configuration

The IPMI Mode control allows you to set up the node's Intelligent
Platform Management Interface card, which can be used for remote
access. Avere recommends configuring IPMI on all cluster nodes.

Note: Instead of configuring individual IPMI cards, you can use the

  IPMI

   settings page to configure IPMI cards at the cluster level. Cluster
  IPMI card settings are applied automatically to new nodes that join
  the cluster.

If you use a cluster-level IPMI setting as explained in the note
above, a custom setting made here on the Node Details page overrides
the cluster-level setting for this individual node. However, if you
update the cluster-level setting later, individual node settings are
overwritten.

Choose from the following options:

No IPMI Configuration - Does not change the IPMI setting. IPMI cards
typically are configured to use DHCP when shipped from Avere. If
choosing this setting, make sure that the card still has a valid
configuration - if an IPMI card does not have an IP address it cannot
be used for system recovery.

Static - Assign a static address to the IPMI card. When choosing this
option, you must provide the IP address, netmask, and router address
in dot notation.

DHCP - Use DHCP to assign the IPMI card's address.

Read

IPMI

 for more information.

Chassis View

An interactive graphic view (4) appears between the Edit Node panel
and the Details panel. The graphic shows the node chassis from the
front.


Note: The chassis view is unavailable for virtual (vFXT) nodes and
  for 2x00 series models. Some 2x50 models show the image but do not
  support all of the functions described here.

The chassis view provides drive information, including the following:

Failed Drive - Failed drives are outlined in red on the diagram.

Drive Number Identification - Move your mouse pointer over a drive bay
on the image to show its drive number. The image above shows drive
number 6.

Physical Drive Locator - Click a drive bay on the chassis diagram to
activate a blinking LED on the physical drive bay in the rack. Click
the diagram again to turn the light off. This feature can help you
identify a node or a specific drive in the rack.

Node Specifications, Configuration, and Statistics

The rest of the Node Details page shows non-editable information about
the node.

Network Details

The first section lists IP addresses assigned to the node, including:

Cluster network IPs - These addresses are always used by this node,
unless the cluster network configuration changes.

Client-facing IPs  - These addresses are managed by the cluster's
vservers but currently in use by this node. VServer-assigned IP
addresses can move from node to node, even when a home node is set.
Read Client Facing Network Settings for more details.

Node Management IPs - If the node currently is assigned any reserved
management IP addresses, they are listed here. Read Node Management
Addresses to learn how these addresses are designated and allocated.

Software Information

The Details section includes information about the Avere OS version
installed on the node.

Active Image - The software image that the node is using

Alternate Image - The software image loaded on the node's alternate
partition. Read the Software Update page to learn more.

Node Performance Statistics

The Performance section shows the node's average performance currently
and over the previous minute. It also shows per-disk performance
metrics over the past minute.

Node performance statistics include:

Number of operations per second

Cache hit rate percentage

Latency in milliseconds

Disk performance statistics include:

Read and write speed in KB per second

Read and write speed in operations per second

Read and write latency in microseconds

Queue length

Disk utilization percentage

Hardware Summary and Sensor Readings

This section gives information about the physical FXT unit. For vFXT
nodes, a subset of this information is provided.

Hardware details include drive information, connection status, serial
and model numbers, and other information. The sensor readings table
gives the state of all monitored sensors on the chassis.


Core Filer Connections

This node's connections to back-end storage volumes are listed by core
filer name. For each core filer, this panel lists the IP addresses
that this node uses for communication, and the number of connections
from this node on each IP address.
