Cluster > KMIP Servers


This page lists any KMIP servers already known to the cluster, and has
controls to add, modify, or remove servers.

Before attempting to add a KMIP server, make sure that you have added
the necessary X.509 certificates to the system by using the

Cluster > Certificates

 page. Two certificates are required to define a new KMIP server:

A root CA certificate, which is shared between the remote KMIP server
and the Avere cluster

A client certificate to authenticate the cluster when it connects to
the server

Check the documentation for your KMIP server to learn what it requires
for client authentication.

Read

Configuring KMIP for an Avere Cluster

 to learn all of the pieces necessary to enable server-based key
management on your cluster.

Defining a KMIP Server

To add a KMIP server to the cluster, click Create.


Enter the following information.

Name
   A text name that will identify the server in the Avere Control
   Panel

Hostname
   Enter the fully qualified domain name or the IP address of the
   server.

Port
   The server port to use for KMIP traffic

Username
   (Optional) A login name for the cluster to use when connecting to
   the KMIP server. Consult your KMIP server's administration guide to
   learn whether or not to provide a value in this field.

Password
   (Optional) A password to use with the username above. Consult your
   KMIP server's administration guide to learn whether or not to
   provide a value in this field.

   Important: Different KMIP servers require different attributes
     for authenticating connections. You must configure the correct
     set of attributes according to the KMIP server software that you
     use. For example, some KMIP servers require both a client
     certificate and a username and password, but other servers
     require a client certificate and require that the username and
     password fields be blank. The Avere Control Panel does not
     validate that the information entered in this page is correct for
     the type of KMIP server being used.

Root CA Certificate
   Select the certificate that defines the trusted CA for KMIP
   authentication. This certificate must exist in the system already;
   add certificates by using the

   Cluster > Certificates

    page.

Client Certificate
   Select the certificate used to authenticate the cluster to the KMIP
   server. This certificate must exist in the system already; add
   certificates by using the

   Cluster > Certificates

    page.

   The Avere Control Panel requires a client certificate when defining
   a KMIP server because most KMIP server implementations require a
   certificate for client authorization. If this restriction causes a
   problem in your system, contact Avere Global Services for
   assistance.

Note
   Optionally, enter a text note about the server to help with
   administration.

After setting the values, click the Create button to save the
configuration.

Modifying or Deleting a KMIP Server

To change parameters or remove a KMIP server definition from the
cluster, locate the server entry in the list and check its Actions
box. Click the Modify button to update parameters in the selected
server, or click the Delete button to permanently remove it from the
system.

The screen for modifying a KMIP server definition is similar to the
screen used to create one; change the values and click the Modify
button to save the changes.


When modifying a server definition, the existing password is not
shown. The blank Password field does not indicate that there is no
password stored.

Using a KMIP Server

KMIP key management can be selected when creating a new cloud core
filer, or on the Cloud Encryption Settings page in the Core Filer
settings section of the Avere Control Panel.

An Encryption Key Store selector appears in the third page of the
cloud core filer wizard, and at the top of the Cloud Encryption
Settings page. The KMIP servers defined on this page are options.

The alternative to KMIP is a simple key store, which is managed
locally.

Read

Configuring KMIP for an Avere Cluster

 for an overview of all the steps required to enable KMIP on your
Avere OS cluster.
