VServer > CIFS Shares


One of the final steps in configuring SMB access so that Windows
clients can access data through the virtual server is to set up shares
on the Avere cluster for communicating with core filers. These
mappings are called SMB shares, or CIFS shares (for historical reasons
- CIFS is an older version of SMB).

Avere Systems has tested up to 2000 SMB shares on one cluster.

Accessing SMB Shares

SMB/CIFS shares can be accessed from a Windows client by using the
syntax

"\\dns_domain\share_name"

where

server_name is the name of a server in the domain

dns_domain is the fully qualified DNS name

share_name is the name assigned to the SMB share

Example: "\\maple.dev.example.com\NEWDATA"

If a fully qualified DNS domain name is not used, the DNS search
suffix is used to try to find the name. A NETBIOS name can be used in
this setting, but NETBIOS lookup might fail if the server is not in
the same network broadcast domain.

Creating SMB Shares

Use the CIFS Shares page (in the VServer section) to define shares.

If you have more than one virtual server, choose an SMB-enabled
vserver from the drop-down list in the side menu. (If you choose a
vserver that is not configured for SMB, the CIFS Shares page will be
empty.)

Click the Add New Share button (it is above the list of existing
shares). A panel labeled Define a New Share appears on the page.


From the Share Type drop-down list, choose the type of share to
create:  Regular Share (the default) – The path to the share is
determined by the NFS export path and the subdirectory path, combined.
Home Share – With a home share, the path includes a variable (%S or
%U) that automatically maps subdirectories for each user. This feature
allows administrators to create just one share but map home
directories for each user or group on that share.  For example, with
the settings in the image below, if a user with the name juser
navigated to \\<domain>\homes, she would see the contents of the
namespace path /juser.  Default settings for a home share  Include the
variable in the Subdirectory field. Using %S gives access by share,
which allows individual users to access all home directories on their
share (if filesystem ACLs allow access). The %U option restricts
access by username and also maps unknown share names to the user's
home directory - research the possible uses of this option before
choosing it.

Enter a name for the new share in the CIFS share name field. Share
names must have the following properties:  Share names must be unique.
Note: Share names are case-insensitive.  Share names cannot contain
control characters (0x00 - 0x1F)  Share names cannot contain any of
the following characters: " % * + , / : ; < = > ?[ \ ] |  Share names
must be at least 1 character long but no more than 242 characters
long.  The maximum length for a SMB share name is technically 255
characters, but in an Avere cluster the share name is combined with
its server's NetBIOS name (maximum 12 characters) for an internal
reference. A share name longer than 242 characters is not recommended
because such a name can possibly exceed 255 characters when combined
with the server name.

Select the NFS export to be used for the share from the NFS export
drop-down list. Multiple SMB shares can use the same NFS export.

If needed, enter a subdirectory for the export in the Subdirectory
field. The subdirectory name can include additional directory path
information.  For example, if you have a share named payroll that
should resolve to the directory /mgmt/dept/finance/payroll and the
share’s NFS export is /mgmt/dept, specify the subdirectory as
/finance/payroll.  If you selected Home Share as the share type, the
Subdirectory field is automatically populated with %U, which will be
replaced with the username of a user on the SMB client.  [ xxx
http://trac.arriad.com/Trac/ticket/22885 will change default to %S xxx
]  The values above cannot be changed after you create the share.

Optionally, set advanced properties for the share by selecting the
Advanced checkbox. These settings are described in detail in the next
section under Advanced Share Settings.

Click the Submit or Set Home button (the button text is Set Home if
the share type is Home Share).

The new share appears in the table of shares.

Advanced Share Settings

These settings can be configured when you create a new share, or in
the share details page.

Browseable – If the share is browsable, users can view it by browsing
to the vserver.

Inherit Permissions (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Specifies
whether new directories created under the share will automatically
have the permissions of their parent directory. The default is No.  Do
not attempt to enable Inherit Permissions on a junction that uses CIFS
ACLs for access control.

Read Only – Use this setting to create a read-only share. The default
(No) creates a read/write share.

Hide Unreadable - Setting this to Yes causes the system to exclude
files and directories from directory listings if the user does not
have permission to access them. The default setting is no (disabled)
because hiding files on a per-user basis requires additional access
checks and can impact performance.

Strict Locking – This feature causes the system to perform a byte-
range lock check (a check on locks for a section of a file) each time
data is read from or written to the SMB share. Leave it disabled (the
default) to improve performance.  Although server-side lock checks are
part of the SMB specification, this can be safely disabled because
clients make lock checks before sending read or write requests.  As of
this release, Avere OS does not support simultaneous multi-protocol
locking. That is, you cannot lock a file or share from a SMB client
and from an NFS client at the same time. Contact Avere Global Services
to learn more.

Oplocks – Oplocks allow a client to locally cache multiple writes if
no other client is using the file. This feature eliminates the
overhead of writing repeatedly to the Avere cache during a period of
intense activity from a single client. Select Disabled to disable all
oplock support. Select Enabled (the default) to allow read/write
oplocks.  Enabling the Oplocks setting permits level 1 and batch
opportunistic locks, but does not enable level 2 oplocks - these are a
separate setting.

Level 2 Oplocks – Select Disabled to prevent read-only oplocks. Select
Enabled to perform lock checks on read-only oplocks (note that the
main Oplocks setting also must be enabled).

Read-only Optimized – Select Yes to enable performance-related options
on read-only shares. The default value is No.  There is also a
vserver-level read-only optimization setting, which is configured on
the VServer > CIFS page. The vserver-level setting is useful only if
all of the vserver's SMB shares are read-only.

Guest OK - Set this to Yes to allow users who are not listed in the
authentication database to access this share. (This setting does not
work reliably across all client types and is not recommended.)

Create Mask (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an octal value
representing the UNIX permissions to use for newly created files in
this share. The default is 0744 (read/write/execute by owner;
read/execute by group; read/execute by any user).

Security Mask (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an octal value
representing the UNIX permissions to set on a file whose permissions
are changed by a Windows client from the native Windows security
dialog box. The default is 0777 (read/write/execute for all users).

Directory Mask (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an octal value
representing the UNIX permissions to set on a directory that is
created with DOS permissions. The default is 0755 (read/write/execute
by owner; read/execute by group; read/execute by any user).

Directory Security Mask (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an
octal value representing the UNIX permissions to set on a directory
whose permissions are changed by a Windows client from the native
Windows security dialog box. The default is 0777 (read/write/execute
for all users).

Force Create Mode (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an octal
value representing the minimum set of UNIX permissions for any file
created by the Avere OS SMB/CIFS server. The default is 0000 (no
permissions).

Force Security Mode (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an octal
value representing the minimum set of UNIX permissions for any file
whose permissions are changed by a Windows client from the native
Windows security dialog box. The default is 0700 (read/write/execute
by owner; no permissions for others).

Force Directory Mode (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter an octal
value representing the minimum set of UNIX permissions for any
directory created by the Avere OS SMB/CIFS server. The default is 0000
(no permissions).

Force Directory Security Mode (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter
an octal value representing the minimum set of UNIX permissions for a
directory whose permissions are changed by a Windows client from the
native Windows security dialog box. The default is 0000 (no
permissions).

Force User (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter a UNIX username
that is assigned as the default user for all users of the Avere OS
SMB/CIFS server. This is useful for sharing files. Note that
specifying an incorrect username or a username without adequate
permissions can cause access problems. There is no default value.

Force Group (POSIX mode bit junctions only) – Enter a UNIX group name
that is assigned as the default group for all users of the Avere OS
SMB server. This is useful for sharing files. Specifying an incorrect
group name or the name of a group without adequate permissions can
cause access problems. There is no default value.

Deleting or Modifying a SMB Share

To delete a share, click the Delete button in the share’s row in the
table that lists the shares.

To modify a share, click the share name in the list of shares on the
CIFS Shares page to open the share details page.


Some values, including the share name, access control type, export
path, and subdirectory, can't be modified after the share is created.

Other values can be changed from this page. (These values also can be
set when you create a share; click the Advanced checkbox on the Define
a New Share panel to show these fields.)

Share-Level Access Control Lists (ACLs)

Each SMB share has its own share-level ACL. This ACL determines which
users and groups are permitted to connect to this SMB share.

Do not confuse share-level ACLs with the access control method
selected on a

namespace junction

 for SMB. Those selections set the junction's security style (options
are "POSIX mode bits" for NFS, or "CIFS ACLs" for NTFS), but do not
specify which users may access the junction's subdirectories.

Also note that a restrictive share-level ACL can prevent client access
to a file on the back end even if ACLs on the target file or directory
allow access.

A more detailed discussion of SMB share ACLs is included in

Configuring Share-Level ACLs

.

Avere OS does not read share-level ACL settings from core filers; if
you have share-level ACLs set on back-end storage, you must replicate
the share access control settings on the Avere cluster's SMB shares.

To see what permissions are set on an SMB share, go to the share
details page in the Avere Control Panel by clicking the share name in
the list on the CIFS Shares settings page.


Permissions are saved as access control entries (ACEs). You can delete
or modify a permission by clicking the appropriate button in its
Actions column.

Note: User and group names in an ACE cannot be changed; instead,
  delete the original entry and create a new one.

Click the Add ACE button to add a share-level permission setting for
this SMB share.


Enter the following values:

User/Group - The Windows user or group that the ACE applies to, by
name or security ID (SID) in decimal form. Names from a trusted domain
must contain the domain prefix. For example, DOMAIN\UserOrGroupName.

ACE Type - Choose whether to allow or deny the specified permission to
the specified user or group. Note: Deny settings override Allow
settings if there are conflicts. (Read Configuring Share-Level ACLs
for more information.)

Permission - Choose one of the following permission settings:  Read -
view, list, execute  Change - all Read permissions, and also modify,
add, and delete  Full - all Change permissions, and also the ability
to modify permissions

Click the Submit button to save the new ACE.
