Cluster > VLAN


The VLAN page lets you customize the network environment of your
cluster by creating VLANs.

This page also has a link to the page for creating static routes.

(If advanced networking is disabled on your cluster, this settings
page does not appear. Read

Cluster > Administrative Network

 for more information.)

One VLAN, named "default", is automatically created for your cluster.
This VLAN cannot be removed or renamed, but some of its settings
(including the router address) can be modified.


Creating or Changing a VLAN

Choose a VLAN to modify, or click the Add New VLAN button to configure
a new VLAN.


VLAN settings include the following.

Name
   Enter a name in alphanumeric characters with no spaces. The
   underscore character (_) is valid, but not hyphens or other
   punctuation marks or symbols. The name must be shorter than 127
   characters.

VLAN tag
   Supply an integer tag to identify this VLAN. The tag number must be
   a unique integer between 1 and 4094.

Default router
   The default router that the VLAN should use.

   Note: Avere OS assigns all VLANs that use the same router to use
     the same forwarding information base (FIB). If you want VLANs to
     use different forwarding tables, you must assign them to
     different routers.

MTU (optional)
   The maxiumum transition unit setting for this VLAN, in bytes. This
   number must be an integer between 512 and 9000; typical values
   include 1500 and 9000, but make sure that your system can handle
   the value that you set. If you do not set a specific MTU the VLAN
   uses the setting from the default VLAN.

Roles
   Check the boxes for at least one role that you want the VLAN to
   fulfill. Roles can help you organize your network if you reserve
   certain IP address ranges for certain types of traffic; read

   VLAN Roles

    for more information. If you do not use designated IP ranges,
   consider assigning all of the roles to each VLAN. Options are:

   Client - The VLAN is used to communicate between the FXT nodes in
   the cluster and the clients. VLANs with this role can be selected
   to serve individual IP address ranges defined in the the VServer >
   Client Facing Network page.

   Cluster - The VLAN is used to communicate between the FXT nodes in
   the cluster, and also between the cluster and core filers. Cluster
   VLANs must use the default gateway assigned to the cluster.  VLANs
   with this role can be selected when specifying address ranges for
   cluster networks (on the Cluster > Cluster Networks page).

   Core Filer Access - The VLAN is used to communicate between the FXT
   node cluster and the core filers

   Management - The VLAN is used to communicate between a management
   machine and the FXT nodes in the cluster. The IP addresses used by
   the VLAN are not locked to a single node.

   Note: VLAN roles only determine whether or not the VLAN can be
     selected when configuring particular types of networks. Read

     VLAN Roles

      for more information about where each type appears.

Configuring Static Routes

You can configure static routes for a VLAN in order to direct how the
vservers communicate with the cluster, and how the cluster
communicates with the core filers. This is particularly necessary if
your core filers are located on different VLANs, and the cluster needs
a gateway other than the default to reach them.

To configure static routes, you need the following information:

What VLANs your clients are on

What VLANs your core filers are on

The client-facing and core filer-facing IP addresses

The Static Routes Page

Static routes are configured on a separate page that does not appear
in the left menu of the Settings tab. Click the Configure Static
Routes link at the bottom of the VLAN page to access the Static Routes
page.

The Static Routes page shows a list of VLANs by router, and the static
routes (if any) that are defined for the VLAN.

Click the Add button to create a new static route for that VLAN.


Creating Static Routes

To create a new static route, click the Add (or Modify) button in the
row with the VLAN that needs the static route.

Fill in the route parameters.

Destination IP
   The IP address where traffic will be routed, in dot notation

Netmask
   The mask to use with this static route. The netmask can be provided
   in in IPv4 dotted format or /

   number_of_bits

    format.

Gateway
   The IP address to use when routing to the destination IP

Click the Add Another Route link to create more than one static route
at a time. When finished, click the Update Routes button.

Modifying or Deleting Static Routes

After static routes are defined, you can change or delete them.

Changes and deletions apply to all static routes for that VLAN.

Options in the Actions column typically include:

Delete - Remove all existing static routes from the VLAN.  Avere OS
does not give a warning if you choose this option.

Modify - Add or change routes on a VLAN that has existing routes. (You
also can use this option to show the settings for the static route
fields; use the browser back button or reload the page without making
changes.)

Add - Create a static route for a VLAN that does not have any.
