Cluster > Support

The settings on the Support page manage the type of information your
cluster keeps and provides to Avere Global Services if the cluster has
a problem.

This page is used in conjunction with the

Support tab

 to assist Avere Global Services in evaluating your system's status.


Keeping the settings on this page current can expedite troubleshooting
and recovery if you need to contact Avere Global Services for support.

There are several sections on the page:

Customer Information

Secure Proactive Support (SPS)

Support Package Update

Custom Settings

If a section is collapsed, click the triangular control next to the
name to show the options.

Customer Information

In the Customer Info panel, you can configure general monitoring
settings and some automatic uploads to Avere Global Services that can
help detect and troubleshoot possible issues.


Customer ID
   This field contains the cluster identifier that you or your Avere
   Systems representative entered when creating the cluster. This
   field identifies your cluster for Avere Global Services. If you
   have multiple clusters, make sure that each cluster has a unique
   ID.

Upload Validation

   The Upload info validated field indicates whether or not Avere
   Global Services has successfully received information from this
   cluster. If this value does not read "yes", click the Revalidate
   upload information button.

   If recent uploads have failed, a Download link appears so that you
   can save the report and send it manually.

   Contact Avere Global Services if your upload cannot be validated.
   Upload failures typically are caused by network security
   configuration issues or connectivity problems. (Some companies
   require a proxy server when sending information from a data center
   to an external internet address; read

   Using Web Proxies with Avere OS

    for more information about how to configure a proxy server for
   support uploads.)

Monitoring Options

   A series of checkboxes allows you to configure various monitoring
   and file sharing options. You can discuss the appropriate settings
   with your Avere Systems representative during product installation,
   or with Avere Global Services when you are troubleshooting an
   issue.

   Some of the settings in this section turn on automatic uploads to
   Avere Global Services, and others only enable data collection for
   later manual upload.

   These options activate automatic system information uploads to
   Avere Global Services:  Statistics Monitoring (nightly upload)
   General Information Upload (nightly upload)  Crash Information
   Upload (upload if an unplanned restart occurs)

   These options turn on extra data collection for manual uploads from
   the Support tab. (Read Using the Avere Control Panel Support Tab to
   learn more.)  Gather Rolling Trace Data  Enable Memory Debugging

   Each option is explained in more detail below.

   Statistics Monitoring - This option turns on a nightly upload of
   several detailed statistics about the cluster, which can allow
   Avere Global Services to detect potential problems before they
   become serious. Statistics are collected every ten minutes, then
   uploaded at 1:00 a.m. local time.  Avere Global Services often
   recommends that this item be enabled by default.

   General Information Upload – This option enables the nightly upload
   of a cluster-wide system report, including log files, configuration
   information, and other historical cluster data. This upload occurs
   nightly at 1:00 a.m. local time.  Avere Global Services often
   recommends that this item be enabled by default.

   Crash Information Upload - This option sends Avere Global Services
   notifications of process core files, with pertinent information
   surrounding the event.  Avere Global Services recommends that this
   item be left enabled.

   Gather Rolling Trace Data – This option causes the cluster to
   gather various levels of timing trace information (based on the
   Trace Level setting, configured below).  Avere Global Services
   typically recommends enabling this option only when troubleshooting
   an issue.

   Enable Memory Debugging - This option causes the cluster to save
   information about memory usage during cluster operation. This
   option provides a deeper level of memory debugging information than
   other monitoring options.  Avere Global Services recommends
   enabling this option only when troubleshooting an issue.

Trace Level
   Enter a value in this field only if instructed to do so by Avere
   Global Services. Your representative will provide an appropriate
   value if one is required. This field is generally used only when
   troubleshooting an issue.

Core Save Policy
   This setting determines how core files are retained. If a failure
   results in a core file, Avere Global Services can analyze the file
   as part of investigating the cause. Core files are stored in a
   system drive partition designated for support-related files; core
   files can use up to 40% of this partition's space, in the default
   configuration.

   Possible values include the following:

   Overwrite Oldest - If the core file space is full, delete the
   oldest saved core file when a new core file is generated. This is
   the default value.

   Overwrite Newest - If the core file space is full, delete the most
   recent  core file when a new core file is generated.

   Use Available Space - Save core files until the entire support
   partition is full. If the partition fills, new core files will not
   be saved. This configuration is useful only in specific situations
   and generally is not recommended.

Before choosing a non-default value, consult your Avere Systems
representative.

Secure Proactive Support (SPS)

Secure Proactive Support is a feature that allows remote
troubleshooting with minimal customer involvement. When you enable
SPS, a message about the current state of the system is transmitted to
Avere Systems using a secure link, at a time interval that you set.


SPS uses the same upload mechanism as the statistics configured in
Customer Info section.

SPS can send information like the following:

Summary statistics (as seen on the Avere Control Panel Dashboard)

Alerts or conditions

The state and hardware configuration of cluster nodes

Shipping information for hardware replacement if needed

To enable Secure Proactive Support:

Select the Enable SPS Link checkbox.

Select the SPS Upload Interval from the drop-down list. Options range
from thirty seconds to one day, or you can set a custom interval.  The
SPS agent running on the cluster attempts to send information to Avere
Global Services on the specified interval. Most administrators should
leave this setting at the default value of five minutes.  If the
message cannot be sent at a specific interval, the information is
saved for the next interval.

Remote Commands

Select Enable Remote Commands if you want Avere Global Services to be
able to run a limited set of commands on your cluster. Remote commands
are typically used only if the cluster software indicates that they
are needed.

A restricted set of XML-RPC commands can be sent remotely (only
commands in the support module), and only authenticated Avere Global
Services personnel have access to this interface.

If a remote command is used, information is saved in a support log.
The log includes:

Who requested the action

The command executed

The result of the command

The time of the command

The reason for the command

The log is stored as "remote_command.log" in the cluster's "/var/log"
directory.

Shipping Information

The Shipping Information section lets Avere Systems know the shipping
address and contact person in case this cluster has a hardware failure
that requires replacement.

Keeping this information updated with the current physical location of
the cluster hardware, a contact person, and an accurate phone number
can save time if replacement parts are needed.

Support Package Update


The Support Package Update section can be used to download a software
package with updated support tools. Use this section if you are
instructed to do so by Avere Global Services.

Avere Global Services will provide a URL for the support package
update. If you need to use a web proxy to reach external URLs, make
sure that the proxy is configured on the cluster before attempting to
download the software.

Custom Settings


In some cases, Avere Global Services staff might advise you to add or
remove custom settings for your cluster.

Important: All information for the fields in this area must be
  provided by Avere Global Services.

A custom setting can include a name, value, and checksum (Check). If
Avere Global Services did not provide a string for the Note field, you
can enter your own text there or leave it blank.

Click the Submit button to save the custom setting, and verify that
the values appear correctly in the table.
