VServer > Export Rules


This page gives you the ability to customize and create new export
policies, which control client access to core filer exports.

Export policies are made up of export rules, applied in order from top
to bottom. The system automatically sorts rule by scope so that they
will be applied in this order:

Host

Network

Netgroup

Default (no scope filter, matches all clients)

However, if you have multiple rules at one scope, the order might be
significant.

If you have not modified the default export policy (named default), it
provides full access to the exported filesystem.

If your cluster uses more than one vserver, you must configure export
rules for each vserver separately; export rules and policies cannot be
copied or moved between vservers.

Select a vserver by using the drop-down selector in the side menu (1)
to show its  policies.

Considerations for Customizing Export Policies

Before starting to create or modify export rules and policies,
consider these things.

Rules can be created within an existing policy only. Before creating a
new rule, you should decide whether to apply it to the default policy
or to create a new policy. Follow the steps in Creating An Export
Policy if you want to add the rule to a new policy.

Rules in an export policy are applied in order from host to default,
but rules within one scope cannot be re-ordered after they are
created. New rules are always added to the top of the group for their
scope. So, for example, if you have two rules that use network
filters, you should create a more general rule before a more specific
rule so that the specific case is tested before the general case when
the policy is applied.

If you use netgroups, the system immediately polls for changed
netgroup information if you change an export policy (add, modify, or
delete a rule) or change which policy applies to an export (on the
Export Policies page).

Creating An Export Policy

To create a new policy, click the Create New Policy button (3) at the
top right of the page.

Enter a name for the policy in the pop-up window.  Creating a new
export policy

The new policy is created and automatically selected so that you can
add rules to it.  A new policy with no rules

Follow the procedure described in Customizing an Export Policy to add
rules to the new policy.

Customizing an Export Policy

You can add rules to an export policy, or delete rules to change its
effects. You also can change an existing rule.

The steps in creating or modifying a rule are similar.

Select the policy to modify in the drop-down list at the top of the
table.

To modify an existing rule, click the Modify button in the Actions
column for that rule.

To delete an existing rule, click the Delete button in its Actions
column.

To create a new rule, click the Add new rule button (4) at the top of
the page. The new rule will be created at the top of the list for that
rule scope - that is, it will be evaluated first among all rules with
the same filter when the policy is applied.

When adding or modifying a rule, a detailed panel appears above the
list of rules so that you can configure the following options. (The
panel is labeled either Add New Rule Definition or Modify Rule
Definition depending on the situation.)

Remember to click the Submit button after configuring all of the
settings for the rule. The new rule will appear at the top of the list
in its scope category.

The sections below explain the options for each setting.

Rule Scope and Filter Value

The scope and filter values define which clients will be affected by
this export rule.

The

scope

 of the rule sets the method for filtering clients, and the

filter

 element sets the values to match. For example, you can use a rule
that filters by specific host IP addresses, or filter all clients from
a particular network.

Scope Values

Rules in a policy are automatically ordered by scope, from most
specific (host) to least specific (default). Within each category of
scope, new rules appear above older rules.

Possible values include the following:

host – The rule matches a specified host (client).

network – The rule matches clients in a specified network or subnet.

netgroup – The rule matches clients in a specified netgroup.

default – The rule matches all clients.

Filter Values

The filter format depends on the rule's scope, as follows:

for host: The IP address or fully qualified domain name of the host to
which the rule applies

for network:  The network or subnet to which the rule applies,
specified in one of the following formats:  IP_address/mask_length
(for example, 192.168.0.1/24)  IP_address/netmask (for example,
192.168.0.1/255.255.255.0)  Network name, preceded by an equals (=)
symbol (for example, =EXAMPLE.COM)

for netgroup:  Netgroup name, preceded by the @ (at) symbol (For
example, for a netgroup named BUILDHOSTS, enter @BUILDHOSTS into the
field.)

for Default:  The asterisk (*) character, specifying that no filtering
is applied.

Access Level

The access level setting determines what permissions are granted to
clients that match the filter.

Use the Allowable access drop-down list to choose from these values:

no access

read-only

read/write

User ID Settings

The User ID Mapping and Anonymous User settings determine how user
identifiers (UIDs) are sent to the core filer.

For security reasons, you might want to change the UID on requests to
the core filer export. The most common reason is to prevent a user
with special privileges on the client system (for example, the root
user) from gaining the same privileges on the back-end system.

Use the UID mapping list to choose how to handle client-side user
identifiers. Options are:

map root to Anon – Client requests from user ID 0, typically the root
user, are mapped to the anonymous user for requests to the core filer
export. This is commonly known as “root squashing.”

map all to Anon – Client requests from all users are mapped to the
anonymous user.

no UID mapping - No user-ID mapping is performed; UIDs are passed
verbatim from the client to the core filer. A root user from the
client will have access as a root user on the core filer.

Use the Anon drop-down list to configure the user ID sent to the core
filer from an anonymous user. Options include the following:

-2 (nobody)

65534 (nobody)

-1 (no access)

65535 (no access)

0 (unprivileged root)

SUID/SGID

Check the box labeled Allow SUID bits within this export if you want
to allow files on the core filer to change user IDs (SUID) and group
IDs (SGID) upon client access. Typically, SUID and SGID bits are used
to temporarily increase a user's privileges in order to accomplish a
task related to the file.

Submount Access

Check the box labeled Allow submounts within this export to let
clients also access subdirectories of the core filer export point.

Consider the security implications of this setting before changing it
- in most cases, the access controls set on the parent directory
cascade to the subdirectory, but there can be situations where
allowing submount access exposes files unintentionally.

Authentication

In the Authentication Flavors area, you can set the type of
authentication for the core filer export. Choose either UNIX/SYS (the
default) or Kerberos.

Read

Setting Up Kerberos Authentication

 to learn more about enabling Kerberos authentication for a core filer
export.

Deleting an Export Policy

To permanently remove an export policy, select it fron the list on the
Export Rules page. If it is eligible for deletion, a Delete policy
button appears in the upper right corner of the page.

Note: You cannot remove the default export policy.

Testing Client Access

You can test an export policy before applying it to an export. Use the
Client to test field at the bottom of the Export Rules page to enter a
client IP address or hostname, then click Filter. The test utility
displays the first matching rule in the current policy for that
client.
