Core Filer > Manage Core Filers


The Manage Core Filers settings page shows a list with all of the
configured storage systems (core filers) for the cluster.

Filtering and Sorting the Core Filer List

Click the triangular control at the left of a core filer name (4) to
show details for that storage system.

Use the Search field (2) to restrict the list to core filers that
match a filter term (for example, a name, type, or setting name).
Delete the search text to show all core filers.

The list can be sorted by column values - click the column heading,
(3) to sort by that value.

Links to Additional Configuration Pages

Each core filer entry includes hyperlinks on the filer name and on the
cache policy.

Click the name link (6) to go to the Core Filer Details page for that
storage system.

Click the cache policy link (5) to go to the Manage Cache Policies
page for that policy.

Core Filer Actions

Four action buttons appear at the top right of the list (1): Create,
Invalidate, Suspend, and Remove. These operations are described in
more detail below.

Create A Core Filer

Click the Create button to start the process of adding a new core
filer.

A wizard utility walks you through adding a back end storage system to
the cluster. The process is different depending on whether your
storage system is an NFS NAS system or a cloud storage volume.

For more details, requirements, and a step-by-step walkthrough of the
wizard for each type of storage, read these documents:

Prerequisites for Adding a New Core Filer

Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer

Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer

For general information about types of storage that can be used as
core filers in an Avere cluster, read

Working With Core Filers

.

Invalidate A Core Filer

The Invalidate option marks all data from the core filer that is
cached in the Avere cluster as invalid. Any client-initiated file
changes that have not been transmitted to the core filer are
discarded, and client read requests will be served from the back-end
volume on the next request.

Caution: All

   cached data is lost if the core filer is invalidated. If your
  system uses a read-write cache, this means that client writes stored
  in the cache are lost along with cached read files. It is possible
  to lose work when using this option, because files saved by clients
  might not have been permanently transferred to the back-end core
  filer storage. Consider the impact carefully and consult Avere
  Global Services before taking this action.Invalidating a core filer
  can interrupt cluster traffic for several minutes.

If you need to invalidate a core filer and delete its entire cache,
select the filer by checking the box in its Actions column, then click
the Invalidate button.

Suspend A Core Filer

The Suspend feature disables client access to this core filer without
permanently removing the filer.

This feature can be used to disable a filer for maintenance, or remove
a failed core filer from the system for repair or replacement.

The suspend feature is available for NAS core filers only.

Note: A suspend feature is also available for GNS junctions. Read
  more on the

  VServer > Namespace

   page.

To suspend a core filer, select it in the Actions column, then click
the Suspend button. A dialog pops up and asks you to confirm the
action.


If you want to re-enable a suspended core filer, click the triangular
control to open the filer details, then click the Unsuspend button at
the bottom of the details section. It is unnecessary to select the
core filer's Actions checkbox.


Remove A Core Filer

The Remove button permanently removes the core filer, all of its
settings, and all of its data from the cluster.

To remove a core filer, select it in the Actions column, then click
the Remove button. A dialog asks you to confirm this action.
