Cluster > Schedules

The Schedules page works with the

Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies

 page to set up times when cache content is completely synchronized
with the core filer.


Note: This configuration page was recently updated in Avere Control
  Panel. The information in this document is still a useful reference,
  but the screenshots and number of steps is slightly different for
  Avere OS version 4.6.2.5 and later. Updated documenatation is being
  created.

Schedules are used in cache policies to make sure that data is written
to the core filer before a core filer backup, snapshot, or other
operation. This is called

scheduled write-through

 and it is described in more detail on the cache policies page.

To learn more about write-through scheduling and cache
synchronization, read

Synchronizing Cached Data with Scheduled Write-Through/Read Mode
Periods

.

If any schedules have already been created for your cluster, this page
shows a list of existing schedules instead of the Create New Schedule
panel.


Modifying a Schedule

To update an existing schedule, click it in the list. The Update
Schedule panel is a populated version of the Create New Schedule
panel; in either case, you can set the times and days you want by
clicking the buttons to add or remove values.

Creating a Schedule

If no schedules are defined for the cluster, the Create New Schedule
panel is automatically displayed when you load the Schedules page. If
not, click Create New Schedule to open it.

Use the controls to configure the schedule.

Use the Schedule Name field to enter a descriptive name. This name is
used to select the schedule on the

Core Filer > Manage Cache Policies

 page. (Write-through scheduling is configured in the

advanced

 section.)

In the section labeled Clause 1, click on the minute, hour, and day of
the week values to specify when the operation will run. You can choose
multiple values for each time division. (You must select at least one
value for each division; none of them has a default value.)

For example, this clause would start a write-through mode every day at
10:00 p.m.


If you need to configure additional start times, click Add Another
Clause. You also can remove clauses by clicking the Remove This Clause
link inside the border of the clause.


Remember to click the Create New Schedule button at the bottom of the
page when finished.
