Administration > Login Services


On the Login Services page, you can configure an LDAP or Active
Directory (AD) server to supply usernames and groups for authorizing
access to the Avere Control Panel.

Note: This page only configures directory services for the cluster
  login (Avere Control Panel). This system is not used to authenticate
  client requests (see the

  Cluster > Directory Services

   settings page to configure client access).

There are two steps to configuring LDAP/AD-based login services:

Use the LDAP section to specify one or more LDAP or AD servers

Use the Login section to choose LDAP as the user source

You must also create an "AvereAdmins" group in your directory services
system, as described below.

The Avere Admins Group

Avere OS recognizes users in a group named "AvereAdmins" as having
administrator privileges for the cluster. Users in the AvereAdmins
group automatically have full access to the Avere Control Panel and
command-line interface:

AvereAdmins users have full access privileges on the Avere Control
Panel - they can both monitor and configure the cluster from the web
interface.

AvereAdmins users can pass command-line API calls as an administrative
user.

You can set up this group on your AD or LDAP server. Follow the
standard procedure for creating user groups on your AD or LDAP system.

Specifying the Server

Use the LDAP section of the Login Services page to specify the servers
to use for authenticating users logging in to the cluster. Fill in the
directory service information as required.

LDAP Server
   Enter the IP address or fully qualified domain names for up to
   three LDAP or AD servers. Separate multiple entries with spaces.

LDAP base DN
   Enter the base name of the LDAP domain.

Secure access
   Check this box if you want the system to encrypt all LDAP
   connections.

   When you check the Secure access box, additional security options
   appear:

   Require valid certificate checkbox - Uncheck this box if you use
   self-signed certificates.

   CA certificate URI field - If using a certificate authority, you
   must specify the resource identifier for downloading a signed
   certificate in this field. Click Download Now to test the URI by
   retrieving the certificate. Otherwise, the system will attempt to
   download the certificate when you click Submit.

Bind DN and Bind password
   Name and password to transmit for secure LDAP connections

Specifying the Login Username Sources

Use the drop-down selector in the  Login section of the page to choose
the source for login names.


Choose Local to use only the individual accounts set up on the

Administration > Users

 page, or Local/LDAP to use both the individual accounts and the LDAP
or AD servers configured on this page.

You cannot unselect the Local option (that is, you cannot manage
logins exclusively from a directory server); the Avere Control Panel
always must have a locally defined administrator account.
