VServer > VServer Details


The VServer Details page lets you configure advanced settings for one
vserver.

You must select a single vserver to configure in this page. Use the
drop-down Choose VServer menu or use the drop-down selector in the
sidebar. (Both of these controls are labeled (1) in the screenshot
below.)

Note: The drop-down chooser in the sidebar affects all pages in that
  section. That is, if you use the bar underneath Manage VServers to
  select a vserver called GNS-123, and then load any of the pages that
  require a vserver selection (Vserver Details, Client Facing Network,
  Namespace, NFS, CIFS, or CIFS Shares), these pages will load with
  GNS-123 automatically selected.


The Details section (4) at the bottom of the page shows current
information about the vserver.

You can use the VServer List link (2) to return to the Manage VServers
page.

Editable information is in the main section (3). Each option is
explained in detail below.

VServer Name

You can rename the vserver by editing the VServer Name field.

Hot Client Settings

A

hot client

 is a client that generates a disproportionately high amount of demand
on the cluster relative to other clients.

Collecting statistics on hot clients puts an extra burden on the
cluster nodes, so if you do not plan to use this information, leave
this setting disabled.

To enable hot client collection, check the Collect hot client
information box. Optionally, you can customize the other settings in
this section.

The Hot Client Limit is the maximum number of clients from this
vserver to use for hot client statistics. The default is 10, which
means that information will be collected for the top ten most active
clients on the vserver.

Hot Client Period is the polling period (in seconds) for collecting
information. The default is 60 seconds (1 minute). The system will
collect hot client information once during this interval.

Note: You also can enable hot file collection from the Dashboard
  section of the Avere Control Panel by clicking the box in the
  Clients tab of the status bar at the bottom of the page.

Client Settings

This section allows you to customize the type of error messages sent
back to clients that access suspended junctions or core filers.

Options are:

Jukebox

For NFS clients - An immediate reply status of EJUKEBOX

For SMB clients, responses depend on the operation:  Idempotent
operations receive MORE_PROCESSING_REQUIRED after a 55-second delay
Non-idempotent and modifying operations receive IO_DEVICE_ERROR after
a 55-second delay

Suspend

For NFS clients - An immediate TCP disconnect

For SMB clients:  Idempotent operations receive
MORE_PROCESSING_REQUIRED after a 55-second delay  Non-idempotent and
modifying operations receive IO_DEVICE_ERROR after a 55-second delay

IO

For NFS clients - An immediate reply status of EIO

For SMB clients - An immediate reply status of IO_DEVICE_ERROR
