Cluster > Kerberos


You can configure Kerberos network authentication for communication
between the cluster and clients, for communication between the cluster
and core filers, or for both.

This settings page includes basic configuration for all Kerberos
communication, and also allows you to upload a key file to use with
cluster-core filer operations.

Additional settings are needed to enable Kerberos for client-cluster
or cluster-core filer operations. Read

Setting Up Kerberos Authentication

 to learn more about how Kerberos is configured in Avere OS.

Basic Kerberos Settings

Use the Kerberos panel to specify infrastructure settings that are
used by all Kerberos connections in the cluster.

Realm

In the Realm field, enter the Kerberos realm (domain) that contains
the principal names in the Kerberos server database (for example,
company.net). Note that Kerberos cannot service requests outside its
realm, so make sure that the realm encompasses all vservers and core
filers for which you want to use Kerberos.

You can use DNS to specify additional members of this realm. This
feature assigns clients that do not have explicit realms to a realm
based on their domain name.

There are two options for DNS realm mapping; you cannot use both:

DNS Domain Discovery uses DNS to automatically determine the realm of
a host.  Be cautious when using the domain discovery option, because
it can lead to more security vulnerabilities than the explicit DNS
domain mapping option.

In the DNS Domains field, enter a space-separated list of domain or
host names to add to the Kerberos realm. This option is more secure
than the domain discovery option.  Names must start with a period.
Separate multiple values with spaces, for example:  .kerberos_co.net
.kerberos_co2.net .company.com

Key Distribution Center (KDC)

To specify the key distribution center, do

one

 of the following:

Select KDC DNS Discovery if you want Avere OS to search for the key
distribution center.

In the KDC field, enter IP addresses or DNS hostnames for the Kerberos
KDC servers. (This option is available only if KDC DNS Discovery is
not selected.) Separate multiple values with spaces.

Cluster Keytab File

Use the Kerberos Service Key Management panel to upload a keytab file
for authenticating communication between the cluster and core filers.

This file is different from the Kerberos keytab file uploaded on the

VServer > NFS

 settings page. That file is used for client-vserver communication.
Read

Setting Up Kerberos Authentication

 to learn more about the different types of Kerberos configurations in
Avere OS.
