Cluster > General Setup

The first page in the Cluster section has basic options that affect
the entire cluster.


Cluster Name

Use this setting to change the name for the cluster.

A cluster name must meet these criteria:

Length of 1 to 16 characters

Can include letters, numbers, and the dash (-) and underscore (_)
characters

Must not include other punctuation or special characters

To change the cluster's name, enter a new value in the field and click
Submit. Note that you cannot revert the name change after submitting
it; however, you can immediately change the name again to its previous
value.

Note: If you have configured SMB access and are using the cluster
  (NetBIOS) name as the name of the SMB server, changing the cluster
  name does not change the SMB server name. The Avere SMB service
  continues to use the server name listed on the CIFS configuration
  page.

Allowing Nodes to Join the Cluster Automatically (legacy systems only)

In some configurations, an option labeled Allow unconfigured FXT nodes
to join this cluster appears underneath the cluster name setting.

This feature is no longer available in Avere OS, but the setting still
appears on clusters that had the feature enabled before upgrading the
software.

Caution: If you unselect this checkbox, you will not be able to re-
  enable the feature.

This feature was designed to simplify cluster creation by allowing new
nodes to join a cluster automatically. If using this feature, be
careful to avoid exposing the cluster to nodes that should not join
the cluster.

Enabling Advanced Networking (legacy systems only)

Note: The Advanced Networking feature is enabled by default on new
  clusters created in Avere OS 4.5 or later. You cannot disable
  advanced networking after it has been turned on for a cluster.

The Avere OS Advanced Networking feature activates additional network
customization options, including the following features:

Cluster components are connected with virtual local area networks
(VLANs). You can create multiple VLANs to handle different types of
traffic, and designate which vlan handles specific IP address ranges.

Forwarding Information Base (FIB) tables can be used to route traffic
dynamically.

Link aggregation and port groups can be used to customize how ethernet
ports handle various types of traffic.

Administrators can configure multiple IP address ranges for the
management, cluster, and vserver networks, instead of only one. This
feature enables the use of discontinuous IP addresses in one network
group.

To enable advanced networking:

Check the Enable Advanced Networking box. A pop-up dialog appears
reminding you that you cannot disable this setting, and that client
access might be interrupted while changes are made.

Click OK to proceed.

Clusters with advanced networking turned on have a VLAN settings page
in the Cluster category. You might need to refresh your browser page
before the new page appears in the Avere Control Panel.

Learn more about advanced networking features in these documents:

Configuring Network Services for an Avere Cluster

Cluster > Administrative Network

Cluster > VLAN

Enabling FIPS-Compliant Encryption Mode

The FIPS Mode setting allows you to restrict the type of encryption
used in the cluster to only NIST-validated cryptographic algorithms.
(FIPS stands for Federal Information Processing Standard, which
defines validation procedures.) This setting is disabled by default.

The FIPS mode setting affects the entire cluster.

Note: FIPS mode is not active until after the cluster is restarted
  with this setting turned on. Changing this setting requires a
  cluster- wide restart.

The Avere FXT core cryptographic module has been validated for FIPS
140-2 Level 1 standard. Cluster communication uses OpenSSL certificate
#1747 for encrypting objects and creating TLS/SSL connections to core
filers.

When FIPS mode is active, weaker cryptographic algorithms (like RC4)
may not be used. To minimize the impact on hardware CPUs, the AES-NI
systems built in to modern processors are used to provide encryption
and decryption.

Important: Some cloud storage services do not use FIPS-compliant
  cryptographic algorithms by default. A cluster that uses FIPS mode
  cannot communicate with these cloud core filers.Make sure that all
  of your core filers have been added to the cluster and are
  configured with appropriate cryptographic settings before turning on
  FIPS for the cluster.

Changing the FIPS Mode Setting

To enable or disable FIPS mode, click the Enable FIPS Mode checkbox to
select or clear it, and then click the Submit button at the bottom of
the page.

FIPS mode is applied cluster wide, and changing the setting requires a
cluster-wide restart. When you submit a setting change, the
confirmation dialog gives you the option to restart the cluster
immediately.

If you prefer to reboot the cluster manually, use the

System Maintenance

 page in the Administration section.

Internet VLAN

The Internet VLAN selector lets you select which local network the
cluster uses to communicate with the external internet.

To add a cluster VLAN, use the

VLAN

 settings page.

This setting is not available if Advanced Networking is disabled.

Setting a Web Proxy

Use the Web Proxy menu to choose among the proxy servers configured in
your cluster network, or choose none.

This control only allows you to switch configurations; to set up web
proxy servers, use the

Proxy Configuration

 page.

Link Aggregation

This control lets you turn on link aggregation, and choose either Link
Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP) or static aggregates. Link
aggregation is disabled by default.

Note: In most cases, enabling link aggregation for a cluster
  requires configuration setting changes on your network switch.
  Consult the documentation for your switch, or contact Avere Global
  Services for more information.

To turn on link aggregation for the cluster, use the drop-down Link
Aggregation menu to select LACP or Static.

The type of link aggregation depends on your network's configuration.
Choose LACP if your network uses dynamic link aggregation as specified
by IEEE 802.1AX-2008 (formerly 802.3ad); choose Static if your network
is configured for static aggregation.

Link Aggregation Configurations

Depending on the specific hardware, an FXT node typically includes two
or four 10GB ports, two or four 1GB ports, and two 1GB management
ports (e0a and e0b). Avere OS uses the 10Gb ports preferentially for
all traffic, with the 1Gb ports in reserve.

How ports are aggregated depends on whether or not the Use 1 Gb
management network option is selected on the Administrative Network
page. When the management network setting is enabled, the two 1Gb
management ports are allocated to a separate aggregate reserved for
management traffic. The 10Gb ports are collected in a single aggregate
that handles client/cluster traffic (a common practice is to split the
10Gb ports among multiple network switches to provide failover if one
switch goes down). The remaining 1Gb ports form an aggregate used if
all of the 10Gb ports fail.

When the management network setting is disabled, the 10Gb aggregate
handles management traffic as well as client/cluster traffic, and all
of the 1Gb ports are allocated to a single aggregate that is used for
failover.

Customizing Node Names

Node names are automatically assigned as each node joins a cluster.
The names are constructed by combining the node prefix with a node ID
number.

Use the Node Name Settings section of the General Cluster Setup page
to configure the node names. Customizing these settings is optional.

When you submit changes to the naming scheme, nodes that are already
in the cluster are renamed to match the scheme. Any new node added
will also be automatically named with the next available node name and
number.

You can change an individual node name from its

Node Details

 page.

Node Name Prefix and Number Format

Use the Node Prefix field to enter the prefix name and, optionally,
set the number of digits in the node ID number.

The prefix text is the first part of each node name.

Optionally, use the pound sign character (#) at the end of the prefix
text to set the number of digits used in the node ID number. If you do
not set the number of digits, ID numbers are assigned sequentially
without leading zeroes.

For example, if you want all of the FXT nodes to be named tiered-

ID_number

, with three digits in the number, enter "tiered-###" in the Node
Prefix field.

Nodes in this cluster would be named tiered-001 or tiered-020, instead
of tiered-1 or tiered-20.

First Node Number

Use the  First Node Number field to specify the number for the first
node in the cluster. This setting is optional. Additional nodes in the
cluster are numbered sequentially from the specified number.

For example, if you specify 10 as the first node number with the
prefix tiered-, nodes are named tiered-10, tiered-11, and so on.
