About Avere OS

This page gives a basic overview of an Avere cluster, and describes
how to get started configuring a cluster by using the Avere Control
Panel.

Avere Storage Optimization Solutions

Avere clusters and software provide a high-performance interface that
accelerates client access to one or more back-end storage systems (

core filers

). Storage systems can be cloud object stores, network-attached
storage (NAS) appliances, or a mixture of types.

Avere storage optimization consists of the Avere OS software running
on one or more FXT Series

nodes

. FXT nodes can be physical appliances or virtual servers (a virtual
FXT node is also called a vFXT). Nodes work together as an Avere

cluster

. The cluster's performance scales nearly linearly with each node
added to the cluster.

When a file is being actively accessed, Avere OS caches its content
and metadata on high-performance nodes in the cluster, circumventing
the overhead of sending each read and write request to back-end
storage. When file usage becomes less frequent, the cluster transfers
that file to the core filer and removes it from the working set,
freeing up resources for files that are in higher demand.

Avere OS regularly writes modified files from the cluster back to the
core filers to ensure data integrity. The timing of these writes can
be influenced by various factors:

Time since last written - You can set a maximum time delay before
changes are synchronized from the cache to the core filer

Space available in the cache - The cache needs to free space for other
files that are being accessed more frequently

Amount of unwritten files - Avere OS automatically writes files to the
back end storage when  modified files reach a set percentage of data
in the cache

Set schedule - You can configure the cluster to flush data to the
back-end core filers at specific times - for example, to ensure that
back-end storage is in sync before its regular backup

The optional

High Availability

 (HA) feature, which stores copies of one node's cached files on
another cluster node, can provide additional protection in the event
of a system outage.

Avere System Overview


    Avere Edge Filer  Core Filer  Performance optimized  Accelerates
read, write, and metadata operations  Transfers data to core filers
(write, move, mirror)  Capacity optimized  FlashCloud support for
public and private object stores  Supports FlashCloud object core
filers and NAS core filers from different vendors in the same cluster
(for example, NetApp, EMC/Isilon, Oracle, BlueArc, Nexenta)

Clients connected to an Avere OS FXT cluster can access and modify
files regardless of whether or not they are cached in the working set.
Avere OS provides several preconfigured cache policies to set how the
cluster cache processes read and write operations from clients, and
administrators can create custom cache policy settings as well. Refer
to

Cache Policies

 for more information.

The Avere solution can be deployed without significant disruption to
your current storage or network infrastructure. Because the cluster is
placed between your clients and your core filer, you can enable or
disable it as needed.

About This Document

This guide is written for system administrators who need to manage an
Avere cluster. It assumes that you have a basic knowledge of networked
storage, including network access protocols such as the Network File
System (NFS) and the Common Internet File System (CIFS).

It also assumes that you have an Avere cluster installed and
configured as described in the

Avere Quick Start Guide

.

The following highlights are used in this document:

Caution: A caution indicates that failure to follow directions in
  the statement can result in damage to equipment or loss of data.

Important: An important statement presents clarifying information or
  specific instructions.

Note: A note presents commentary, sidelights, or interesting points
  of information.

Prerequisites for Administering an Avere Cluster

Avere OS supports core filer access using NFS version 3, SMB (CIFS),
and SMB2.0 protocols.

The cluster is managed by using the Avere Control Panel, which is a
browser-based graphical interface to the Avere cluster. (A command-
line interface also exists; contact Avere Global Services to learn
more.)

This guide assumes that you have a cluster with at least one node and
one virtual server (vserver) currently set up and running. Refer to
the following for more information:

The FXT 5000 Series Installation Guide

The Avere Quick Start Guide

In addition, you will need to plan for the following:

Setting up exports on your particular core filer, as described in
Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports.

Deciding on an authentication method.

Deciding how to set up network access to your cluster, described in
Configuring Network Services for an Avere Cluster.

Planning how to set the cache policy for each core filer. The cache
settings will generally depend on whether you are primarily using the
core filer for a high rate of data exchange, or to store data long-
term, as described in Cache Policies As you add core filers to the
cluster, you will need to set the cache policy on each one.

Installing a Feature License

Several Avere OS options, particularly FlashCloud^TM, FlashMove^®, and
FlashMirror^®, require a separate license. After you purchase a
license, you must send your license ID to Avere Global Services, and
they will provide you with a license key.

The process is described in detail in

Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses

.

Using the Avere Control Panel

The cluster is managed by using the Avere Control Panel, a secure,
browser-based application.

The Avere Control Panel presents a single system image of the cluster
and all of its constituent nodes; you can manage the entire cluster or
any individual node from the Avere Control Panel.

Browser requirements include the following:

A standards-compliant browser that can access the management IP
address on the cluster’s network. Avere Systems supports the three
most recent major releases of Mozilla Firefox® Google© Chrome, Apple
Safari®, and Microsoft Internet Explorer®. The browser must have
JavaScript enabled.

If your browser supports the DNS Service Discovery (DNS-SD or
Bonjour®) protocol, either through a plug-in, or natively (as in the
case of Apple Safari), you can use it to discover Avere clusters
without needing to know machine names or IP addresses. The browser’s
workstation must run on the same subnet as the cluster’s management
interface.

Avere Control Panel Access

Two types of access are available for the Avere Control Panel:

Full Access allows administrators to configure cluster settings as
well as to monitor the cluster.

Read-Only access allows regular users to monitor the cluster, but not
to update the cluster configuration.

Configure user access to the cluster control panel by using the Users
settings page, or the Login Services settings page, or both.

Users Page

On the Users settings page, you can configure individual usernames and
passwords for logging in to the cluster control panel.

Individual user accounts can be set for read-only access or
administrative access.

Note: You cannot create read-only user accounts from the Login
  Services page. To create accounts that can monitor the cluster but
  that cannot change settings, use the Users page or the command-line
  interface.

Login Services Page

On the Login Services settings page, you can configure an Active
Directory or LDAP server to read a group containing administrator
usernames. This system can be easier to maintain than locally defined
users.

With an AD server, you can create a group named AvereAdmins to
automatically give administrative privileges to certain users. Any
user in AvereAdmins is assumed to have full access privileges. You
must create this group in your AD server manually.

You can use both an AD/LDAP server and local login accounts at the
same time.

Read

Administration > Users

 and

Administration > Login Services

 for more details.

Logging In to the Avere Control Panel

To log in to the cluster for management and monitoring tasks:

Use a web browser to go to https://management_IP_address/fxt, where
management_IP_address is the cluster’s management IP address.
Alternatively, if you are using a browser that supports the DNS-SD
protocol, you can navigate to the bookmark labeled Avere Cluster
Management: cluster_name.  If your browser first prompts you to accept
an SSL certificate from the Avere system, accept the certificate.  The
Avere Control Panel Login page is displayed.  Logging in to the |gui|

In the Username field, enter a user name.

In the Password field, enter the corresponding password.

The Avere Control Panel loads and displays the Dashboard tab.

Control Panel Tabs


The Avere Control Panel is divided into the following tabbed pages.
(The release number of the currently installed Avere OS release is
listed to the right of the tabs.) Click any tab to show the associated
page.

Dashboard – This is the Avere Control Panel’s default tab. It displays
performance graphs and statistics, system alerts, and information
about virtual servers (vservers), FXT  nodes, clients, and hot files.
Detailed documentation about the Dashboard section is being developed.

Settings – This tab gives you access to the system configuration. For
an overview of the available settings and links to detailed
instructions about using each settings page, read Avere Control Panel
Settings.

Analytics – This tab enables you to obtain detailed, in-depth
information about activity on your cluster and storage network.
Detailed documentation about the Analytics section is being developed.

Data Management – This tab enables you to move and mirror data on NAS
servers and cloud object stores that are defined as core filers to the
cluster. Data management operations can run concurrently with client
access to data, and do not interrupt client access.  Detailed
documentation about the Data Management section is being developed.

Support – This tab has system details and tools for working
collaboratively with Avere Global Services if problems occur.  Refer
to Using the Avere Control Panel Support Tab for more information.

If a condition occurs that affect the operation of the cluster, the
Avere Control Panel displays a system error (red) or alert (yellow) at
its upper left-hand corner. Clicking on the notification takes you to
the dashboard, where you can view problem details and troubleshooting
information.

You can view pop-up help text for items on the Avere Control Panel
screen by moving your cursor to the left of the item’s label. A
question mark icon appears; hold your cursor over the question mark to
show help text for that item.


Logging Out of the Avere Control Panel

To log out of the Avere Control Panel:

Click the Logout button near the upper right-hand corner of the
browser window. Your session ends and the browser displays the Avere
Control Panel’s Login page.

To ensure a complete logout, exit the browser.
