Configuring Network Services for an Avere Cluster

When setting up an Avere OS cluster, you will need to plan for the
items described here.

Some network configuration needs to be handled at the network
adminstrator level, and it is not practical for any Avere components
to take the place of a network switch or router. However, Avere has
incorporated support for certain networking features that are commonly
used by storage administrators into Avere OS.

Additional information is included in the

Avere Quick Start Guide

. Be sure to read that document before attempting to configure the
network infrastructure.

Subnetworks and IP Address Ranges

You can configure multiple VLANs and set reserved IP address ranges
for different types of traffic. Optionally, you can organize each into
separate VLANs.

There are three main categories.

Management Network

Management IP Address Range (optional)
   A fixed range of addresses used for node management traffic.
   Specify one or more address ranges on the

   Cluster > Administrative Network

    settings page.

   Specifying a management IP range will provide a fixed management
   address to each node in the cluster. This is an optional step, but
   is recommended as a best practice.

Management IP Address
   A static IP address that is used to access the Avere Control Panel.
   This address is always assigned to the primary cluster node; if a
   primary (leader) node becomes unavailable, this IP address will
   move to the FXT node that becomes the new primary.

   Configure the management IP address on the

   Cluster > Administrative Network

    settings page.

Management Network Ports (optional)
   Optionally, you can configure the onboard 1GbE ports of your
   cluster's FXT nodes as a separate network for management traffic.
   Read

   Separate Management Network

    on the

   Cluster > Administrative Network

    settings page description to learn more.

Cluster and Core Filer Network

Cluster IP Address Range
   A fixed range of IP addresses used for communication between
   cluster nodes. Configure cluster IPs on the

   Cluster > Cluster Networks

    settings page.

Core Filer IP Addresses
   A fixed range of IP addresses used for cluster to core filer
   communication

Client Network

VServer IP Address Range
   Each vserver in the cluster manages a specific set of IP addresses
   for client communication. These IP addresses will move among nodes
   in the cluster depending on node status and administrator
   configuration.

Port Settings

Link Aggregation
   The Ethernet interfaces on the FXT nodes can be grouped to create
   failover redundancy with either static or dynamic link aggregation
   protocols.

Port Groups
   An advanced feature allows administrators to assign specific IP
   address ranges to a custom group of network interfaces. The
   configuration is complicated and there might be simpler methods
   available; contact Avere Global Services to learn more.

   Note that port groups are supported only on clusters that use the
   same FXT hardware model for all nodes. Mixed-model clusters cannot
   use port groups.

Network Infrastructure

DNS Settings
   Configure DNS server and domain information on the

   Cluster > Administrative Network

    page. Read

   Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster

    to learn more about configuring DNS for your cluster.

Time Settings
   To ensure consistent timestamps in your cluster, NTP servers are
   required. Time settings are configured on the

   Cluster > Administrative Network

    page.

Security and Encryption

Avere OS can be used with a variety of protocols to encrypt data and
to provide client authentication and authorization.

Kerberos

Kerberos can be used for NAS core filer authentication. Read

Setting Up Kerberos Authentication

 to learn more.

LDAP and AD

Configure user authentication services on the

Cluster > Directory Services

 page; you can use LDAP, AD, NIS, or another method to populate user
and group tables.

Different settings are included for SMB and NFS access.

Cloud Core Filer Access and Data Encryption

There are several options for protecting access to data stored in the
cloud.

You can use a KMIP-based system to encrypt the content of a cloud data
store.

Configuring KMIP for an Avere Cluster

 explains the steps required and gives links to the relevant
configuration steps on the

Cluster > Cloud Credentials

 and

Cluster > KMIP Servers

 pages.

Also, you can set the default protocol to HTTPS for core filer
communication when you create a cloud core filer, or on the

Core Filer > Core Filer Details

 page.

Working with VLANs

You can use

virtual local area networks

 (VLANs) to connect components of the Avere cluster (core filers,
vservers, and nodes).

Note that all VLANs must be accessible by all nodes in the cluster.
However, you can specify particular VLANs to be used for particular
vservers.

Note: If advanced networking is disabled, VLAN configuration is
  unavailable. Read

  About "Advanced Networking"

   for more information. Clusters created with Avere OS 4.5 or later
  have advanced networking features by default.

When a cluster is created, a default (untagged) VLAN is automatically
created. You cannot remove the default VLAN, but you can create
additional VLANs with customized settings.

If the IP address range or VLAN number for any network interface is
changed, the interface is temporarily unavailable while the changes
are committed.

Static Routes

Avere OS allows you to add manual routing entries for routers that
service the cluster.

VLAN Roles

You can specify one or more

roles

 for each of your cluster's VLANs. A VLAN's role controls which lists
it appears in when selecting VLANs in the Avere Control Panel.

If you use reserved IP address ranges for various functions, you might
want to associate a reserved address range with a certain type of VLAN
to avoid accidentally using addresses inappropriately. In general,
though, there is no reason for a VLAN to not have all roles.

Set or change a VLAN's roles in the

Cluster > VLAN

 settings page.

Currently available roles are:

Client

Cluster

Core Filer Access

Management

Client Role VLANs

VLANs with the role Client are used by vservers to serve client
requests.

They appear in the VLAN selector when creating a vserver (from the

Manage VServers

 page) or when editing a vserver's IP range on the

VServer > Client Facing Network

 settings page.

Cluster Role VLANs

VLANs with the role Cluster are used to communicate among the nodes in
the cluster, and also between the cluster and the core filers.

These VLANs can be selected when creating or modifying IP address
ranges for a cluster network, on the

Cluster > Cluster Networks

 settings page.

Optionally, you can reserve a range of IP addresses that are available
exclusively for the use of cluster role VLANs.

Important: Before selecting a VLAN for cluster interfaces, make sure
  that all components of both the current cluster network and the new
  cluster network are functioning correctly. Check that cluster
  traffic is being transmitted across the existing cluster network and
  all interfaces. If any component of the original or new cluster
  network is unavailable when the configuration changes, it is
  possible for the cluster to enter a bad state, causing file service
  disruptions or other failures.When you modify or enable a VLAN for
  cluster interfaces, the change propagates through the existing
  cluster network. Services and internal processes restart on each
  node in the cluster in order to use the new VLAN.A cluster VLAN is
  used for communication between the cluster and the core filers as
  well as among nodes. Cluster VLANs must use the default gateway
  assigned to the cluster.

Core Filer Access Role VLANs

VLANs with the role Core filer access are used to communicate between
cluster nodes and  core filers. (Cluster VLANs also can be used for
core filer access.)

These VLANs can be selected when creating or modifying IP address
ranges for a cluster network, on the

Cluster > Cluster Networks

 settings page.

Management Role VLANs

Management role VLANs are used by storage administrators to access the
FXT nodes in the cluster. Optionally, you can reserve a range of
administrative IP addresses that are available exclusively for the use
of management role VLANs.

Only VLANs with the role Management can be selected in the Management
VLAN list on the

Cluster > Administrative Network

 settings page.

You can reserve a range of IP addresses for a management VLAN to use
for node management. Refer to

Node Management Addresses

 for more information.

Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster

This document explains the basics for setting up a DNS system for your
Avere OS cluster.

If your system is accessed by NFS clients only, using DNS is
recommended but not required (it is possible to specify all network
addresses by using numeric IP addresses). If your system supports SMB
(CIFS) access, DNS is required, because you must specify a DNS domain
for the Active Directory server.

DNS also is required if you want to use Kerberos authentication.

Load Balancing

To distribute the overall load, configure your DNS domain to use
round-robin load distribution for client-facing IP addresses.

Configuration Details

For optimal performance, configure client-facing cluster addresses as
shown in the following diagram.


The following "nsupdate" commands provide an example of configuring
DNS correctly:

   update add avere.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.10
   update add avere.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.11
   update add avere.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.12
   update add client10.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.10
   update add client11.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.11
   update add client12.example.com. 86400 A 10.0.0.12
   update add 10.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 86400 PTR client10.example.com
   update add 11.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 86400 PTR client11.example.com
   update add 12.0.0.10.in-addr.arpa. 86400 PTR client12.example.com

DNS Settings

DNS parameters are set in the

Cluster > Administrative Network

 settings page. Settings on that page include:

DNS server address

DNS domain name

DNS search domains

Read

DNS Settings

 for more details about using this page.
