Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer

This section walks through the process of adding a new core filer to
your vserver. This section is customized for core filers that use
cloud storage on the back end; the process is different for a core
filer that uses NAS storage. Read

Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer

 for details.

Prerequisites for Adding a New Cloud Core Filer

Before starting to configure the cloud core filer on the cluster, make
sure you have the following information.

A valid and active license for FlashCloud on this cluster. Read
Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses for more information.

An existing credential for your cloud storage provider, or the access
and private keys to create a new one

The name of an existing cloud storage container. Read Configuring A
Cloud Container As A Core Filer to learn more about instantiating a
cloud core filer

Encryption details - whether or not to encrypt the core filer, and the
type of key storage used. If using KMIP, you should have a key server
set up before creating the core filer; read Configuring KMIP for an
Avere Cluster to learn how.

The Add New Core Filer wizard guides you through the steps to define a
new storage volume. Start the wizard by clicking the Create label from
the Manage Core Filer page.

New Core Filer Wizard

Start the New Core Filer wizard from the

Core Filer > Manage Core Filers

 settings page.

The options are different for the type of core filer - select Cloud to
define a core filer that uses cloud storage.


Fill in the required fields:

Core filer name - Set the user-visible name for this core filer.

Network - If your cluster has more than one network, select the
network that this core filer will use to communicate with the cluster.

Click Next to continue.

Caching Policy


On the second page of the wizard, choose the caching policy for this
core filer.

Read

Manage Cache Policies

 to learn more about customizing cache settings.

Click Next to continue.

Cloud Service and Protocol


On the third page, specify details about the cloud storage service.

Service type - Select one of the cloud service types. These types are
predefined in the Avere system; contact Avere Global Services if the
provider or service type that you want is not listed.  Some options
are preconfigured when you select a particular service. For example,
selecting Cleversafe cloud storage automatically enables SSL (Use
HTTPS) and specifies port 443.

Cloud Credential - From the next drop-down list, select an existing
credential, or choose Create a new credential set to define a new one.
If you select the new credential option, additional fields appear so
that you can specify the credential name, access key, and private key.
Cloud credential options in the new core filer wizard  To learn more
about these options, read Cluster > Cloud Credentials.

Bucket contents - Specify whether the cloud storage container is
currently populated with Avere-managed files (that is, it was
previously used as an Avere core filer) or if it is empty. Note that
to reuse a container with Avere-managed files, you must use the same
encryption setting that was previously used with this container.  You
will enter more specific bucket information on the next page.  Each
cloud filer can be associated with only one bucket, and each bucket
can be associated with only one cloud core filer. This means that:  If
you use an existing bucket, and choose Empty, you will no longer be
able to access the information in the existing bucket without removing
and re-creating the filer.  If you intend to create a new bucket, and
choose Existing Avere data, you will later be asked for an encryption
key to access the bucket. If you are trying to access a bucket that
did not previously exist, you will not be able to access it (there
will be no encryption key), and you will have to re-create the cloud
filer.

Use nearline bucket (Google Cloud Storage Only) - This checkbox allows
you to mark this cloud core filer as a Nearline Storage bucket. (Avere
OS does not verify whether or not the cloud object is actually
configured as a Nearline Storage bucket.)  Nearline storage is
designed for archive use, and writing data to this type of bucket can
incur data transfer fees.  Nearline storage is the only one of the
three Google Cloud Storage classes (Standard, Durable Reduced
Availability (DRA), and Nearline), that must be explicitly enabled. Be
sure that you understand the cost implications of using a Nearline
bucket as a core filer before you select this option.

Use HTTPS - Check this box to use the secure web protocol in
communications between the cloud and the cluster.  Depending on the
cloud service type, a Port field appears when HTTPS is selected. If
your cloud provider does not use the standard SSL port, 443, enter the
port or range of ports into the Port field. For some cloud services,
the port is not configurable.  Separate port numbers or ranges with
spaces - for example, 7070 7072-7074 defines four ports: 7070, 7072,
7073, and 7074.

Compression mode - If you want to compress objects before they are
written to the cloud core filer, select either LZ4 or LZ4HC
compression in this list.  You can change compression options at any
time; objects written to this core filer are either compressed or
uncompressed according to the setting at the time they are written.

Bucket Details

The fourth page of the New Core Filer wizard for cloud storage has
settings for the storage container.

The options are different for populated storage and for empty storage,
and different cloud services also show different options.

Configuring an Empty Bucket


Set these options for a bucket that has not previously been used for
Avere storage.

Bucket name - Enter the name of the bucket that has been or will be
created on the cloud provider's network.

Network hostname (some cloud providers only) - Enter the hostname or
IP address of the endpoint that will be used to access this bucket.
Avere strongly recommends using the fully qualified domain name for
the region-specific endpoint in this field.  Only certain cloud
storage providers require this configuration. If this field does not
appear, it is not required for the selected provider.

Encryption type - Choose an encryption algorithm (AES-256 is currently
the only option) or choose None to leave the storage volume
unencrypted.  The encryption type cannot be changed later.

Encryption key store - Select the type of key storage used. You can
choose a simple key file stored locally on the cluster, or select a
KMIP server in the cluster. (KMIP servers are configured in the
Cluster section; read Configuring KMIP for an Avere Cluster to learn
more.)

Configuring an Existing Bucket


Bucket name - Enter the name of the bucket on the cloud provider's
network.

Network hostname (some cloud providers only) - Enter the hostname or
IP address of the endpoint that will be used to access this bucket.
(For example: cloud-server-round-robin-dns.mycompany.com) Avere
strongly recommends using the fully qualified domain name for the
region-specific endpoint in this field.  Only certain cloud storage
providers require the network hostname; others determine the endpoint
automatically. If this field does not appear, it is not required for
the selected provider.

Encryption type - Choose an encryption algorithm (AES-256 is currently
the only option) or choose None to leave the storage volume
unencrypted.  The encryption type cannot be changed later.

Encryption key store - Select the type of key storage used. You can
choose a simple key file stored locally on the cluster, or select a
KMIP server in the cluster. (KMIP servers are configured in the
Cluster section; read Configuring KMIP for an Avere Cluster to learn
more.)

Saving Settings

When all of the settings are complete, click Add Filer to create the
new cloud core filer. The Avere Control Panel dashboard might display
warnings during the creation process, but the warnings should clear
within a few minutes.
