Using Web Proxies with Avere OS

This article gives basic information about using web proxies with an
Avere Edge Filer.

Many companies's IT security policies require use of a proxy server to
access cloud services. A proxy server can be used to avoid exposing
infrastructure details about your system.

Proxy Use Cases

Here are some common scenarios in an Avere Edge Filer system that can
be made more secure with a proxy server:

Support Uploads

   The Avere cluster includes a Secure Proactive Support system that
   automatically sends system information, status reports, and crash
   data to Avere Global Services. This system can be enabled or
   disabled on the

   Cluster > Support

    page.

Software Update Downloads

   You can download and install updated software packages from the
   Avere Control Panel on the

   Administration > Software Update

    page.

Communication with Cloud Resources

   If you use cloud core filers or cloud-hosted vFXTs, a proxy server
   can improve security when interacting with commercially available
   cloud computing services.

Cluster Administration and Monitoring

   The main cluster administration tool, Avere Control Panel, is
   accessed over an internet connection to the cluster.

Proxy Support

Avere OS supports transparent or nontransparent proxies. HTTP and
HTTPS proxies are supported; SOCKS proxies cannot be used.

Note that authentication is unencrypted - proxy servers requiring
encrypted transmissions are unsupported. Usernames and passwords are
transmitted in plain text.

Proxies are not supported for communication between the Avere cluster
and NAS core filers.

Configuring a Proxy for Avere OS

There are three steps to setting up a proxy server to use with your
Avere cluster:

Install and configure the proxy server.  The exact steps depend on the
type of proxy server you use and your network configuration. Include
the Whitelisted Domains information listed below.

Create a Proxy Configuration in the Avere Control Panel.  Use the
Cluster > Proxy Configuration page to create a configuration that
includes the proxy server URL and the username and password to use
when connecting.

Apply the proxy configuration to the cluster or to an individual cloud
core filer.  You can select a proxy configuration for the cluster on
the Cluster > General Setup page. This setting affects internet
communication from cluster nodes - for example, uploading support data
or downloading software updates.  You can select a proxy server for a
cloud core filer on the Core Filer > Core Filer Details page. This
proxy configuration handles traffic between the cluster and the cloud
core filer.  There also is a proxy for vFXTs that is selected from the
Cluster Manager interface.

Whitelisted Domains

Avere Systems, Inc. recommends including the following domains in the
permitted access list (whitelist) for your proxy server.

      Domain Name  Description  Notes  verisign.com ocsp.verisign.com
SVRSecure-G3-crl.verisign.com      sd.symcd.com
download.averesystems.com download.averesystems.net  Avere software
updates  Allow the IP range 65.123.167.224/29 to pass through your
firewall on port 443  avere-billing.appspot.com
URI_TO_AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT