Configuring SMB Access

SMB (sometimes called CIFS) is a network sharing protocol that is used
to allow Microsoft Windows computers to share files with other
systems.

Set up SMB in your Avere cluster if you have Microsoft Windows clients
that need to access the cluster. If you only have clients with UNIX-
style operating systems, SMB configuration is not necessary.

Avere OS can support SMB access to any type of back-end storage,
including those that do not provide native SMB support (like cloud
storage), or those that have SMB support turned off. (Systems without
support or with support disabled typically are limited to POSIX style
security - that is, the POSIX mode bits setting - instead of ACL-based
security with the CIFS ACLs setting.)

Here are some important things to note about using SMB in an Avere
cluster:

A Microsoft Active Directory server is required.

A source for downloading user and group names (RFC 2307 attributes) is
required.  Downloading from an AD server is recommended, since an AD
server can support multiple trusted domains and is typically easier to
configure. Other options are to download from a different directory
service, such as NIS or LDAP; or to provide a flat file user/group
mapping.

SMB is enabled or disabled at the vserver level.  Your cluster can
include both NFS-only vservers and NFS/SMB vservers.

SMB shares must be created on the vserver. Creating these shares is a
separate step after mapping the back-end storage export to a namespace
junction.  VServer SMB shares can use either ACLs (known as CIFS ACLs
in Avere OS) or UNIX-style permissions (called POSIX mode bits) for
security.  To use ACL-based security with a NAS core filer, you must
also have an SMB share on the back-end storage system.  VServers can
support SMB even for storage types that do not support SMB or that
have SMB support turned off. (Only POSIX mode bit security is
supported for hardware core filers without native SMB support.)

SMB and Active Directory environments are sensitive to time skew. Make
sure that the system clocks on all hosts involved with SMB (FXT nodes,
Active Directory servers, Windows clients, LDAP servers, core filers)
are within five minutes of each other. Using a common Network Time
Protocol (NTP) source is highly recommended.

Avere OS does not support simultaneous multi-protocol locking. That
is, you cannot safely lock a file or share from an SMB client and from
an NFS client at the same time. Most applications do not require this
kind of control. Contact Avere Global Services to learn more.

Note: SMB configuration is a complicated process, especially if
  using ACL- based security. This document gives only an overview.
  Contact Avere Global Services for assistance if needed.

SMB Configuration Steps

There are several tasks involved in setting up SMB for an Avere OS
cluster. Changes typically are required on the core filers as well as
on the cluster and on supporting systems like AD servers.

This list is a basic overview of the process.

1. Establish an Active Directory Domain

   Determine the Windows domain that cluster vservers will join.

2. Adjust Back-End Filers

   Configure back-end storage hardware to support Avere OS SMB and, if
   necessary, ACL-based security.

   Back-end configuration is required for most NAS systems that will
   interact with Windows clients through the Avere cluster.

   Backend configuration is

   not

    required for:

   Cloud storage

   NAS systems that do not support SMB

   NAS systems with SMB disabled

   If you use POSIX mode bit security instead of ACL-based security,
   parts of this configuration are unnecessary; consult the
   configuration guide for your system or contact Avere Global
   Services for details.

   Note that you must configure NFS communication with the Avere
   cluster even if you plan to access the core filer exclusively over
   SMB and the storage system uses NTFS (Windows style) security.

   Customization required for NAS core filers varies by system, but it
   typically includes the following items:

   Ensure that the security style used on the core filer is compatible
   with Avere OS SMB.

   Create NFS exports and set appropriate permissions to allow the
   Avere cluster to access data and ACL objects on the back end.

   If using CIFS ACL security on a NAS storage system, create an SMB
   share on the back-end storage system that will interact with the
   SMB share in the Avere cluster.

   After defining the core filer in the Avere cluster, configure
   Kerberos constrained delegation for each core filer. This process
   is explained in Configuring Active Directory for SMB.

Read

Configuring NAS Storage for SMB

 for details about core filer configuration.

3. Define Core Filers in the Avere Cluster

   Define the back-end storage systems as core filers in the Avere
   cluster. To enable SMB communication with the core filers, follow
   these guidelines:

   When defining a NAS system as a core filer in the Avere cluster,
   use the fully qualified domain name in the Core filer network
   name/IP field. The literal FQDN is needed for Kerberos constrained
   delegation.

   Make sure to set the Filer Class value correctly for your storage
   system. Avere OS relies on this value to establish hardware-
   specific parameters for SMB-related communication. Read Adding a
   New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer for details.

   In some situations, it can be more efficient to add a storage
   system to the Avere cluster as two separate core filers: one for
   SMB access and one for NFS access. This optimization can benefit
   filesystems with the following characteristics:  SMB ACLs are used
   for security  Windows clients and UNIX/Linux clients do not access
   the same files or directories  Maintaining ACL-based security with
   an Avere cluster involves an access cache, which consumes cache
   memory and increases network traffic. Even if ACLs are only used
   for a small percentage of the data controlled by the core filer,
   all requests to that core filer must involve the access cache.
   Moving NFS-only traffic to a separate core filer lets requests for
   data stored under POSIX security and accessed by UNIX/Linux clients
   to be processed without the extra overhead of ACL access cache
   processing.  This configuration is appropriate only if Windows
   users and non-Windows users do not need to access the same
   directory. Data corruption can result if two different core filers
   access the same data. SMB clients should access the SMB-only core
   filer over a junction that serves only SMB clients. NFS clients
   should access the NFS-only core filer over a junction that serves
   only NFS clients.  Contact Avere Global Services to learn more.

4. Configure Active Directory

   There are several steps involved in configuring AD settings for an
   Avere cluster. Read

   Configuring Active Directory for SMB

    to learn the steps.

5. Enable SMB on Cluster VServers.

   Read

   Enabling SMB on a VServer

    for more information.

6. Create Core Filer Junctions

   When creating namespace paths that will be used for SMB access, be
   sure to specify the access control correctly. (If using a simple
   namespace vserver, you do not create a namespace path, but you
   still must specify access control.)

   Read

   Configuring Global Namespace Paths for SMB Shares

    for details.

7. Define SMB Shares on a Cluster VServer

   Read

   Configuring SMB Shares

    to learn more.

8. Customize ACLs on Cluster SMB Shares

   SMB share ACLs define the maximum permissions available to Windows
   users who connect through a particular SMB share.

   You should define SMB share ACLs in the Avere cluster that match
   the share ACLs from the back-end core filer. Avere OS does not
   automatically read or replicate share ACLs from the back-end SMB
   share on the cluster SMB share; you must create them manually.

   Read

   Configuring Share-Level ACLs

    for more details.

9. Configure Kerberos Constrained Delegation in Active Directory (if
necessary)

   If using a NAS filer and CIFS ACLs security, you must configure
   your AD server to accept requests from the vserver's SMB server
   machine account as a trusted delegate for the NAS SMB server. Read

   Native Identity

    to learn more.

Configuring Active Directory for SMB

Active Directory configuration for an Avere cluster involves several
components of the system.

First, determine the AD domain that your cluster's SMB clients and
vservers will use. You will need to specify the domain in many of the
configuration steps.

Setting Up an AD Server

Detailed AD server setup instructions are included in

Appendix E: Configuring Active Directory for Avere SMB

.

The AD server must be configured as follows:

The server software must be Windows Server 2003 or later, running in
native mode.

The standard microsoft DNS entries must be present.  Global and site-
specific entries must be valid.  AD site-to-subnet entries must be
defined for the client-facing address range of each vserver client.

DNS name resolution must be in place for the core filer and vserver
domain names.

The vserver and core filer machine accounts must be in the same AD
domain. (This is a requirement for Microsoft's constrained delegation
implementation.)

Adding the AD Server to the Avere Cluster

Use the cluster's

Cluster > Directory Services

 page to define the Active Directory server in the Avere cluster.

A configuration wizard guides you through choosing the AD server and
other directory services needed for SMB. Some advanced settings, like
user overrides and manual polling, are not included in the wizard but
can be set in the configuration details page.

Make changes on the configuration details page if you need to do
either of these things:

Use an override file to manually map Windows usernames to their NFS
equivalents

Define static domain controllers for specific domains

Read

Using the Configuration Wizard

 and

The Directory Services Configuration Details Page

 on the Directory Services settings page for complete information.

Core Filer AD Configuration

These adjustments must be made on the core filers.

A method for mapping Windows users to core filer ACLs must be
configured.  Depending on the security style, username mapping can be
handled in one of several ways:  Enable native identity on the Avere
cluster vservers and pass Windows-style identifiers to a back-end core
filer that supports SMB.  Store user and group ID information in AD or
in a flat file on the Avere cluster.

If you are using SMB ACLs on a NAS core filer, you must configure
Kerberos constrained delegation between the vserver's machine account
and the SMB service on the core filer. Read Kerberos Constrained
Delegation to learn more.

If using ACLs to authorize share access, you must also create and
configure service principal names.

VServer AD Configuration

Create one or more Active Directory machine account objects for
joining to the cluster vservers.

A domain administrator must create the AD object.

Create the object in the organizational unit where it will be used;
you cannot move a machine account after the vserver has joined.

Configuring NAS Storage for SMB

Most NAS systems need specific configuration settings to interoperate
properly with an Avere cluster, especially when using SMB ACLs.

Core Filer Security Style

Make sure that your back-end NAS storage uses a supported security
style (sometimes called security mode, or a similar term) for the
volumes that will be accessed through the Avere cluster over SMB.

Most NAS hardware allows the storage administrator to set the security
protocol for individual volumes on the core filer. You can typically
choose between NTFS (Windows style), NFS (UNIX style), or combinations
of the two styles.

Avere OS typically supports NTFS style security and NFS style
security, but might not support the vendor-specific implementation of
a mixed or unified security style. Read the customized Avere
configuration document for your storage system to learn more.

Core Filer Configuration Overview

These are the basic tasks required to configure a core filer for SMB
access through an Avere cluster:

   Make sure that the core filer is a member of the same AD domain as
   the Avere cluster vserver. Configure Kerberos and constrained
   delegation if necessary.

   Prepare and export a storage volume for use with the Avere cluster.
   If necessary, create SMB shares on the exported volume (if using
   ACL security).

   On the back-end storage system, create an SMB share ACL object that
   will communicate with the SMB share on the Avere cluster.  The best
   practice is to create a completely permissive SMB share ACL on the
   back-end volume. To do this, give the user Everyone FULL
   permission.  If direct access to the core filer is a security
   concern, the concern can be mediated by giving the SMB share an
   obscure name and marking the share as hidden so that it does not
   show in a directory listing.  At minimum, the core filer SMB share
   ACL must give the Avere cluster full control permission on the
   storage volume. The cluster also must have root permission so that
   it can copy and move ACLs during data migration.

The exact configuration steps are different on different storage
systems.

   For NetApp Filers, read Appendix D: Configuring NetApp Filers for
   Avere SMB ACLs.

Configuring Global Namespace Paths for SMB Shares

Before defining an SMB share on an Avere cluster vserver, make sure
that the junction that will host the SMB share exists and has
appropriate access control method settings.

If using a back-end NAS filer (that is, a hardware storage system and
not cloud storage) and ACLs, make sure that the back-end volume also
has an SMB share. NAS ACL processing must be between two SMB shares,
one on the core filer and one in the Avere cluster.

Note: This section applies to global namespace vservers only. If
  configuring SMB on a vserver that uses a simple namespace (a legacy
  configuration), your SMB share will map to a single NFS export on a
  single NAS core filer.

To review the basics of configuring a global namespace, read

Using a Global Namespace

.

To learn more about how export rules are inherited, read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

.

Read the

VServer > Namespace

 page documentation for a step-by-step look at creating and
configuring access on GNS junctions.

Designing Junctions for SMB

When creating a junction that will host an SMB share, keep these
principles in mind:

The junction should allow access to the highest possible level on the
NAS core filer. Linking to a lower level path can cause problems with
data access or data migration tasks because the Avere cluster cannot
access information stored in the parent directory of the export.

The NFS export must access the exact same directory as the SMB share.

For example, consider a system where clients will use SMB to access a
directory named "abc" in the path "/vol/vol1/abc" on the core filer:

Create a junction for /vol/vol1

Create an SMB share named vol1 on the junction

Clients access the subdirectory abc from a consistent path for the
junction and the SMB share.

This practice minimizes the number of core filer configuration steps
that are necessary to use CIFS ACL security with an Avere cluster.

Configuring SMB Access Control Method for a Namespace Junction

When creating a new junction that will be used for SMB access, you
must set its access control method to correspond with the security
style used on its core filer.

(If using the legacy "simple namespace" configuration, access control
methods are specified directly on the vserver's SMB share.)

For NAS core filers, choose the method that matches the security style
in use on the back-end system. For cloud core filers, the security
style on the junction determines the security style for the cloud
object store, since object storage does not natively use either POSIX
mode bits or SMB ACLs.

SMB shares on the namespace junction inherit the access control method
set on the junction.

(SMB shares also have individual share-level ACLs, which specify the
actions allowed when users are connected through the share. SMB share-
level ACLs are unrelated to the access control methods set here; SMB
shares that use POSIX-style security still have share-level ACLs.)

The SMB settings are part of the junction configuration in the
Namespace page. For more information, see  see

SMB Access Control

.

(If using Avere OS version 4.6.2.5 or earlier, click the Advanced
checkbox to show SMB settings.)

Junction access control options include:

POSIX mode bits - Choose this option for the junction if your core
filer uses UNIX-style security (owner, group, other).

CIFS ACLs - Choose this option for the junction if your core filer
uses NTFS-style security (SIDs and ACLs).  When using the ACLs option
with NAS storage, the back-end filer must have native SMB support and
an SMB share defined.

Cloud core filers do not have native SMB shares, but SMB shares can
still use either access control option. Avere OS enables SMB shares
that map to cloud storage buckets to use either the POSIX mode bits or
CIFS ACLs security method.

The Permissions field is used when the junction is associated with a
cloud core filer.


When adding a junction that maps to an uninitialized bucket on a cloud
core filer, choose the Force default option that corresponds to the
type of access control method being used for the junction.

Enabling SMB on a VServer

SMB is enabled or disabled on individual vservers. When you configure
and turn on SMB access for the first time, the vserver is joined to
the active directory domain and an AD machine account is created.
(This is referred to in the Avere Control Panel as creating an SMB
server.) This machine account persists for the vserver even if SMB is
disabled and re-enabled; you do not have to create it every time.

You must enable SMB before you can create SMB shares.

These settings are configured on the

VServer > CIFS

 settings page; read that page's

documentation

 to learn more about these options.

To set up SMB on a vserver, you must specify the following items:

An existing AD administrator username and password to create the
machine account on the AD server.  If a machine account has been
created ahead of time, a user with write permissions for the
organizational unit can join the machine account to the OU; however,
Avere recommends using a test object to verify permissions with the
specific organizational unit before attempting to add the vserver.

A NetBIOS name (used to create the AD machine account) - this will be
the SMB server name.  The best practice is to select a netBIOS name
that can match the first component of the DNS fully qualified domain
name.

The AD organizational unit that the machine account will belong to.
(This field is optional, but OU membership cannot be changed after
creating the account.)

Additional SMB settings can be made on the CIFS page:

SMB2 support - Check this box to allow SMB2 clients to use either SMB2
or SMB version 1;  SMB version 1 clients use version 1 regardless of
whether or not this option is checked.

Native Identity (uses Windows security IDs and ACLs on back-end NAS
systems that support SMB; read Native Identity to learn more)

Read-only optimization for SMB shares on this vserver

Local groups (Administrators and Run As Root)

These settings are described in more detail in the

VServer > CIFS

 page documentation.

Click Submit after configuring the required information.

After the first time SMB is activated on a vserver, the

VServer > CIFS

 settings page displays the SMB server name and AD machine account
information, including the AD domain; join status; and distinguished
name.

Configuring SMB Shares

Avere OS SMB shares are mappings to namespace paths. Windows users
access the back-end core filer through an SMB share.

Regardless of whether the SMB share maps to a POSIX-style volume or a
volume that uses SMB ACLs, a share-level ACL controls the access that
any user has to this SMB share.

Create SMB shares on the

VServer > CIFS Shares

 settings page. This section gives tips and background information for
planning and creating SMB shares; be sure to also read the additional
information that is included on the settings page.

After creating an SMB share that maps to a NAS core filer with ACL-
based security style, you must add the vserver's SMB server machine
account as a trusted delegate for the NAS SMB server in Active
Directory. You must do this the first time you add an SMB share for a
new NAS core filer with ACL-based security; subsequent shares for the
same vserver and same core filer do not require additional
configuration. Read

Native Identity

 to learn more.

Share Names

Share names must be unique within the vserver. (That is, you cannot
have two identically named shares in one vserver.)

The VServer > CIFS Shares documentation gives important syntax
guidance, including prohibited characters and name length
restrictions.

If using a simple namespace vserver (a legacy configuration) with ACL-
based security, the vserver's SMB share name must be identical to the
NAS filer's SMB share name. (Shares with POSIX mode bits security can
use any valid share name, because they don't use an SMB share on the
core filer.)

NFS Export and Subdirectory

Depending on the version of Avere OS on your system, the NFS Export
field might show only / (Avere OS versions earlier than 4.6.3) or a
list of available junctions from the global namespace configuration.
If using a variable (%S or %U) to create user-specific directories,
make sure the Home Shares option is selected in the Share Type field.
If using a simple namespace vserver (a legacy feature), exports from
the NAS system appear in the NFS Export field.

The export and subdirectory paths cannot be changed after the share is
created.

Advanced Options

Additional SMB-related security options can be configured for the
share. Click the Advanced checkbox to show these options, among
others:  Read-only access and optimization (can improve performance)
Hide files the user cannot access (can slow performance)  File locking
options  UNIX permissions masks for files or directories that are
created or modified by Windows users  UNIX permission settings for
files or directories created by the Avere SMB server  Default
usernames and guest access

Configuring Share-Level ACLs

Each SMB share has its own access share-level control list (ACL).

Share-level ACLs are not the same as directory and file ACLs. Share-
level ACLs are “gatekeepers” for connecting to SMB shares: they
control which users and groups can connect to the share. By contrast,
directory and file ACLs control what types of access users and groups
have for directories and files within a share.

Also, even SMB shares that map to POSIX-style security volumes use
share-level ACLs.

When you create a new SMB share, it has a default share-level ACL. The
default ACL contains a single access control entry (ACE), which gives
"Full" access to the user "Everyone" (SID: S-1-1-0).

Note: You must create share-level ACLs for each SMB share on the
  Avere cluster, even if the corresponding back-end share has an
  existing ACL. Avere OS does not automatically transfer core filer
  share ACLs to the cluster share.

To view or change access, use the SMB share's details page in the
Avere Control Panel. Read the

Share-Level Access Control Lists (ACLs)

 section on the

VServer > CIFS Shares

 page to learn how to access the details page and update the ACL.

Share ACLs also can be updated from the Avere OS XML-RPC command-line
interface. Read

Changing Share ACLs from the Avere API

 for more information. Modifying share ACLs is also possible from the
Microsoft Management Console (MMC) on a Windows machine, but the
process requires permission settings that are not routinely configured
for a system administrator. (

Viewing or Changing Share ACLs from Windows Systems

 has more details.)

ACE Permissions

Each share has one share-level ACL, which can contain multiple ACEs.

Each share-level ACE has two possible types -

allow

 and

deny

 - and three possible permissions:

read

,

change

, and

full

.

Note that the effect of an

allow

 ACE and a

deny

 ACE are strictly parallel. An

allow

 ACE gives permission for that operation as well as for other implied
permissions. A

deny

 ACE disallows the specified operation as well as any other operations
it contains. For example, an ALLOW CHANGE ACE enables the specified
user to change or read items on the share. A DENY CHANGE ACE prevents
the specified user from changing or reading items on the share.

In practice, all

deny

 ACEs have the effect of disallowing all operations.

        Access Type  Permission  Effective Permissions  Allowed
Operations  ALLOW  READ  Read  view, list, execute  ALLOW  CHANGE
Change, Read  view, list, execute, modify, add, delete  ALLOW  FULL
Change, Read  view, list, execute, modify, add, delete, modify
permissions  DENY  READ  (no access)  none  DENY  CHANGE  (no access)
none  DENY  FULL  (no access)  none

If an

allow

 ACE and a

deny

 ACE apply to the same user or group, the

deny

 ACE overrides the

allow

 ACE.

This permission style corresponds to the Microsoft Management Console
system for setting share ACLs.

Use caution if tempted to use a DENY ACE statement in a share-level
ACL. In general, best practices for file ACLs also can be applied to
share ACLs.

Share ACL Examples

As mentioned before, the ACL on the SMB share sets the maximum allowed
permissions for Windows users connected through this share.

Note that restricting access in a share ACL does not prohibit Windows
users from mapping drives. After the share is mapped, the directory
and file ACLs determine the access permitted on the specific
directories and files.

For example, a user might connect to an SMB share with a share-level
ACL that allows read access but not writes or changes. Even if a file
ACL allows write access for that user, the user will be unable to
write to the file because of the share-level ACL.

Viewing or Changing Share ACLs from Windows Systems

If you use a Windows system to view the Properties information on a
directory from an SMB share, only directory and file-level security
information is displayed; the permissions from the share-level ACL are
not visible. This is true regardless of whether the share directory is
used as a mapped drive or connected through a UNC path.

To view the share-level ACL of a share, use the Avere Control Panel
(go to the share details page by clicking the share name from the

CIFS Shares

 settings page), or use the Microsoft Management Console (MMC) with
the Shared Folders Extension from a Windows machine. Even users from
Windows systems that are not in the AD domain can view share ACLs by
using the MMC.

Manipulating share-level ACLs from the MMC requires domain
administrator privileges. Because storage administrators do not
routinely have domain administration privileges, Avere Systems
recommends using the Avere OS command-line API instead of using the
Microsoft console.

Changing Share ACLs from the Avere API

The Avere OS command-line interface includes methods for updating
share-level ACLs. Commands for SMB configuration start with the name
"cifs" and are documented in the

Avere OS 4.6 FXT API Reference

.

There are a few quirks to be aware of:

When adding an ACE through the cifs.addShareAce() interface, the ACE
being added overwrites any existing ACEs for that particular ID. ACEs
for one ID will not be concatenated, even if the type (allow or deny)
is different.

In XML-RPC commands, DOMAIN\Administrator must be specified with an
upper-case “A”, even though the output of related commands sometimes
displays the phrase with a lowercase "a". Also, domain users are
sometimes displayed with “\” in command output.
