Working With Core Filers

Core Filers are the back-end storage component of an Avere Edge Filer.

Core filers typically are either a NAS storage appliance or a cloud
object store, but they also can be a clustered filesystem or other
arrangement.

An NFS-based system must meet these requirements:

   Serves NFS client requests over NFSv3

   Exposes data over NFS exports

Cloud object storage and other non-NFS systems must use the S3 API.

An Avere cluster can serve as the front end for up to 50 core filers.
(Some limitations apply; contact your Avere sales team for specific
information about supporting large numbers of core filers.) Each core
filer is treated as a single dataset by the Avere cluster.

Each core filer in the system has an administrative name that is used
for quick identification. This name does not have to be the same as
its network name - for example, a core filer with the domain name
filer1.example.com could be named filer1 in the system.

Note: Earlier versions of Avere OS used the term

  mass

   instead of core filer to refer to back-end storage volumes. Some
  API commands and log messages still refer to core filers as

  masses

  .

You can monitor core filer status by using the Core Filers tab on the
dashboard.

Use the Core Filer section of the Avere Control Panel Settings tab to
create and configure core filers for your cluster.

Before Defining a Core Filer

Before adding a core filer to the Avere OS cluster, make sure that it
is compatible with the system and configured appropriately.

Contact your Avere Systems representative for the current list of
supported core filers.

Read the information below to learn about creating a cloud core filer,
and about configuration for core filers that will be accessed over
SMB.

Using Cloud Storage As A Core Filer

Avere OS allows you to use object storage, including private object
stores and cloud storage, with the same methods used to access back-
end NAS hardware storage.

Before adding a cloud storage container to the Avere cluster as a core
filer, make sure you have set up appropriate storage and access in
your cloud environment:

Create a storage bucket to use as a core filer. The bucket should be
empty, unless it is populated with Avere-managed data from previous
use as a core filer and the data is unencrypted or you have its
encryption key and passphrase.

Create a user account that has full access to the cloud storage
bucket. Copy the user account credentials and use them to create a
cloud access credential in the Avere cluster. Use the Cluster > Cloud
Credentials page to store the credential in the cluster.

After you have created a storage container on the cloud system that
you want to use, and set up access credentials, use the New Cloud Core
Filer wizard to define the core filer in the cluster.

Configuring Storage for SMB Access

You might need to customize some settings on your storage systems
before adding it to your  Avere OS cluster. For example, to support
SMB access (from Microsoft Windows clients), some changes to the
storage system can be necessary.

The

Appendixes

 section of this document includes configuration advice for some
commonly used core filer systems. If your system is not documented
there, consult your Avere Systems representative for help.

Note that for some storage systems you should consider separating SMB
access and NFS access by defining two separate core filers. SMB
clients can access the SMB version of the core filer over a junction
that serves only SMB clients. NFS clients can access the NFS version
of the core filer over a junction that serves only NFS clients. This
configuration avoids exposing NFS requests to the overhead of access
cache processing. Contact Avere Global Services for more information.

Adding a New Core Filer

Before starting to configure the core filer on the cluster, make sure
you have the following information.

For a NAS core filer:

The fully qualified domain name of the core filer (for example,
nas1.example.com).  Note that you must use the domain name instead of
an IP address in order to access the core filer with SMB.

For a cloud core filer:

A valid and active license for FlashCloud on this cluster. Read
Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses for more information.

A cloud credential defined in the cluster that allows it to access
your cloud storage container. If you have not defined the credential
yet, you can create it while adding the core filer if you have the
access and private keys.

The name of an existing cloud storage container that will be used as a
core filer. The container can be empty, or it can contain Avere-
managed data that you still are able to decrypt. (You cannot use a
cloud bucket to import non-Avere data.)

Encryption details - whether or not to encrypt the core filer, and the
type of key storage used. If using KMIP, you should have a key server
set up before creating the core filer; read Configuring KMIP for an
Avere cluster to learn more.  If using a storage container that
contains Avere-managed encrypted data, you must have access to the
same KMIP server or supply the simple key storage recovery file for
that data.

The Add New Core Filer wizard guides you through the steps to define a
new storage volume. Start the wizard by clicking the Create button
from the Manage Core Filer page.

The steps are different for NAS core filers and for cloud storage.
They are explained in detail in these two documents:

Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer

Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer
