Core Filer > Cloud Snapshots


The Cloud Snapshots page lists the existing snapshot files for core
filers in this cluster. You can delete snapshots, or protect them from
deletion.

This page also allows you to create a manual snapshot.

Working with the Snapshot Table

Use the Choose Cloud Filer drop-down at the top of the page to show
snapshots from one core filer only.

You can sort snapshots by column values by clicking on a column
heading. Type text in the Search field above the list to show only
snapshots that match the search. (Clear the search field to show all
snapshots.)

Click the triangle at the left of a snapshot row to show or hide
details.

Snapshot Information

The table provides these details about each snapshot.

Cloud Filer:  Which cloud core filer is associated with this snapshot

Snapshot Name:  Names for automatic snapshots (the result of snapshot
policies) include the schedule type (hourly, daily, weekly, monthly),
date (YYYY-MM-DD), and time (HHMM).  Names for manual snapshots are
specified by the administrator when the snapshot is created.

State:  active is an available snapshot  init is a snapshot being
created  deleting is a snapshot being deleted  deleted is a deleted
snapshot

Admin State:  Displays a hyphen (-) if a snapshot can be removed, or
hold if it is protected from deletion

Size:  The amount of disk space used by this file. If compression is
enabled for the core filer, the snapshot size might be smaller than
the size returned by a disk usage query on the core filer.

Data Written:  The size difference between this snapshot and the one
preceding it

Freed On Delete:  The amount of space that will be freed when this
snapshot is deleted

Create Time:  The date and time the snapshot was created

Actions:  Selects this snapshot to perform actions from the buttons
above the table

Protecting and Deleting Snapshots

The buttons above the snapshot table include options to delete
snapshots or protect snapshots from automatic deletion.

Manual snapshots are not automatically deleted, but snapshots created
automatically by a snapshot policy are automatically deleted according
to the policy's Maximum Snapshot Count settings. If you want to
prevent a particular snapshot from being deleted, use the Hold
feature.

Select one or more snapshots in the table using the Actions
checkboxes.

Click the button corresponding to the action that you want to perform:
Hold - Do not automatically delete this snapshot (applies to
automatically created snapshots only)  Release - Remove a "hold"
setting on this snapshot so that it can be automatically deleted
Remove - Delete the selected snapshot (or snapshots) immediately

Creating a Manual Snapshot

To create a new snapshot immediately, click the Create button at the
top of the page. A window pops up and allows you to configure a manual
snapshot.


Choose the core filer to snapshot, and enter a name for the snapshot.
Including a note is optional. Click Create Snapshot after setting up
the operation.

Snapshot creation might take several minutes. After a few moments, the
new manual snapshot appears in the table, under the name specified in
the dialog.

Caution: Clients can experience high latency during snapshot
  creation because Avere OS disables write caching in order to create
  the snapshot. Writing file changes to the cloud core filer instead
  of to the cache can be significantly slower.

Restoring Files from Snapshots

You can use a snapshot to restore changed or lost files. You must use
the command-line interface to restore files from a snapshot.

All snapshot files are read only.

To restore files from a snapshot:

Mount the vserver that is associated with the cloud core filer. For
example:  mount 203.0.113.123:/cloud/ /tmp/source/

Navigate to the mount point destination.  cd /tmp/source

Change to the .snapshot directory.  cd .snapshot

List the folders in the .snapshot directory and change to the
directory that corresponds to the snapshot that you want to use.
Manual snapshots are stored in a directory labeled with the snapshot
name; automatic snapshot directories are named with a combination of
the snapshot name and the date and time.

Locate the file or files that you want to restore and copy them from
the snapshot directory to a convenient location on the local machine.
cp myfile.txt /tmp/restored/myfile.txt
