Cluster > Proxy Configuration


Use this page to manage proxy server configurations for the system.
(To apply a proxy configuration, use the

Cluster > General Setup

 page or the

Core Filer > Core Filer Details

 page.)

Avere OS supports HTTP/HTTPS proxies; SOCKS proxies are unsupported.
The proxy server configurations defined here can be selected for
cluster communication or used with cloud core filers.

Important: Only basic authentication is supported. Usernames and
  passwords are transmitted in plain text. Proxy servers requiring
  encrypted transmissions are not supported.

The table lists existing proxy configurations, with buttons in the
Actions column to remove or modify each one. The Associated With
column shows if the proxy is being used on the cluster or on a core
filer.

Before adding a proxy configuration for your Avere cluster, you should
install and configure the proxy server that you want to use. Read

Using Web Proxies with Avere OS

 to learn more.

Creating a Proxy Configuration

To add a new proxy configuration, click the Add New Config button.


Enter a name for the proxy configuration in Name.

In the URL field, enter the full URL, including protocol. Including a
port number is optional.

If the system will log in when connecting to the proxy server, enter
the username and (if required) the password.

When finished, click Create to save the proxy configuration.

Modifying a Proxy Configuration

To edit a proxy configuration already in the system, click the Modify
button in its Actions column in the table.

If the configuration is being used by any core filers, those filers
are listed at the bottom of the modify dialog.


Using Proxy Configurations

Proxy configurations can be applied to individual cloud core filers,
or to the cluster.

Note: Proxy configurations are used with cloud core filers only; NAS
  core filers do not use proxy configurations.

Cluster Proxy

To set a proxy configuration for the cluster:

Navigate to the Cluster > General Setup settings page.

Use the drop-down list labeled Web Proxy (optional) to choose a proxy
configuration.

Click the Submit button.


Core Filer Proxy (cloud storage only)

To set a proxy configuration for a cloud core filer:

In the Core Filer section of the Settings pages, select a cloud core
filer and open its Core Filer Details page.

The Edit Filer panel has a Proxy setting. Choose one of the
configurations from the list.

Click the Submit button in the Edit Filer area to save the change.
