Core Filer > Core Filer Details


The Core Filer Details page shows information about one core filer and
gives you options to change settings, including cache policy, core
filer name, security settings, and other attributes.

To use these settings, first select the core filer to see by using the
drop-down selector at the top of the page or in the menu sidebar. You
also can load this page by clicking a core filer name in the Manage
Core Filers page. (The Core Filer List link at the top of the page is
a quick link back to the Manage Core Filers page.)

The page is customized for the core filer being displayed; different
edit options are available for hardware core filers (NAS) and for
cloud core filers.

Cache Policy Settings


The Cache Policy panel shows details about the core filer's caching
configuration and allows you to change to a different policy.

The system comes with several predefined cache policies. You can
create customized cache policies as well - read

Manage Cache Policies

 to learn more about customizing cache settings.

If the selected core filer uses a predefined cache policy, this panel
includes a detailed description of the policy and when and how to use
it. For custom policies, the display shows the settings included and
displays any text stored in the Cache Policy Notes field.

The drop-down selector (1) lets you change the cache policy setting
for this core filer.

Note: For cloud filers, only Full Caching or a custom policy can be
  selected. Custom cache policies must include Local Directories and
  cache both reads and writes in order to be applicable to cloud core
  filers.

A link to the Manage Cache Policies page is given at the bottom of the
panel (2) for quick access to customize or create a policy.

If you change the cache policy, click the Submit button (3) to save
your changes, or Revert to abandon the modifications. When changing
among system cache policies, you might see a warning about other steps
that must be taken, or about possible service interruptions that will
be caused by changing the policy. For example, changing a policy could
cause cluster unavailability while data is moved. All NFS clients that
access the cluster might need to remount, and SMB clients might need
to reattach to the SMB share.

Edit Filer Settings

The Edit Filer panel lets you change settings on the core filer.

The settings displayed here depend on the kind of core filer selected,
since cloud core filers have different options than NAS core filers.

Common Settings

A few configurable settings are common to both types of core filers:

Core Filer Name - The visible name for the core filer.

Filer Class - The type of core filer hardware, or "AvereCloud" for
cloud storage. (The filer class setting can be changed for NAS storage
but not for cloud core filers; read more in

NAS Storage Settings

.)

Network - The network that the Avere cluster uses to communicate with
the core filer. (If your cluster includes multiple networks, you can
choose which network to use.)

Enable Bandwidth Control - Check this box to show additional settings
for bandwidth management. These settings allow you to prevent the
cluster from using all available bandwidth when writing data to back-
end storage, and to force cached files to be written to the core filer
earlier than necessary for load balancing. Read

Controlling Write Bandwidth

 to learn more about customizing this behavior.

Maximum Bandwidth - Choose the amount of bandwidth that can be used
for writebacks to this core filer. You can specify a custom value in
MB/sec - integer values between 1 and 800 are accepted.

Early Writeback - Check this box to prompt more frequent writes to
this core filer. Note: You must set a maximum bandwidth if you enable
early writeback.

NAS Storage Settings


In addition to the common settings described above, the Edit Filer
panel includes these settings for NAS core filers.

Core filer network name/IP – You can change the information about the
network name or IP address, if, for example, you have moved the core
filer to a different network. As when you defined the core filer, use
dot notation or a fully qualified domain name and separate multiple
values with spaces. (A fully qualified domain name is necessary to
support SMB ACLs and recommended for most other situations.)

Snapshot directory – Many NAS core filers provide a

snapshot

 feature that creates periodic, read-only copies of the data stored.
If this core filer supports snapshots, specify the name of the
snapshot directory that it uses. This setting allows clients to access
snapshot files through the Avere cluster. The default is ".snapshot".

   Note: Avere OS always treats snapshot directories as read-only,
     regardless of the core filer's cache policy. Although the data
     represented in the snapshot might be cached on the Avere cluster,
     snapshot attributes are always read from back-end storage, which
     makes queries on snapshot directories slower than for typical
     directories.

Excluded files and directories -  Optionally, list files on the back-
end core filer that should not be cached, moved, or modified by the
Avere cluster. You can use this field to ignore metadata files or
snapshots created by the core filer OS.  Specify filenames or patterns
- for example, ".etc" - and separate multiple entries with commas.

Filer class - Choose the type of hardware that corresponds to the
back-end storage system, or choose Other if the hardware type is not
listed.

   Note: Make sure that the Filer Class value is set correctly
     before enabling SMB access for this core filer.

Enable WAN Optimization – If the core filer is in a wide-area network
(WAN) environment, select this option to optimize communication.

Caution:

 This setting might degrade performance in a local-area network (LAN)
environment.

Enable Kerberos – Select this option to enable Kerberos
authentication. If you have not yet installed a keytab file, you can
select this option, but you will need to access the

Cluster > Kerberos

 settings page to install a keytab file.

Read

Setting Up Kerberos Authentication

 to learn more about the settings necessary to configure Kerberos for
cluster-core filer communication.

Hardware Details (Optional) – Information about the core filer’s
hardware, if it has been entered. You can add hardware and
configuration details about this core filer here. This information is
included in system logs, which can expedite support resolutions if
there is an issue.

Cloud Storage Settings


In addition to the common settings described above, the Edit Filer
panel includes these settings for cloud core filers.

Network hostname - This field appears for some kinds of cloud storage
only (for example, AWS storage uses a regional endpoint instead of a
hostname). It holds the fully qualified domain name that is used to
access your cloud storage bucket.

Cloud credential – Specifies which cloud credential the core filer is
using. Use the drop-down list to choose from any other existing
credentials. Cloud credentials are defined in

Cluster > Cloud Credentials

.

Compression mode – Optionally, choose a mode to enable file
compression before storing data on the cloud core filer. Compression
options are LZ4 or None.

Using compression allows you to save storage space on the cloud core
filer, but it increases overhead when reading and writing files to the
cloud. Encrypting and decrypting files requires processing time, which
could slow write and read times when accessing the core filer.

   Note: If you change compression modes, files are not reprocessed
     until the next time they are stored. That is, individual files
     will be compressed with the method that was in effect the last
     time they were written.

Enable HTTPS – Select this option if you want to use the HTTP over SSL
web protocol to communicate with your cloud provider.

   Note: If your cloud provider does not use the standard https
     port, 443, this option is disabled.

Certificate verification - Select how to validate the SSL certificates
sent by this core filer. Options include:

OCSP - Use the online certificate status protocol to validate
certificates

CRL - Use a certificate revocation list to validate certificates

OCSP_CRL - Use OCSP first, and if it fails, use CRL

DISABLED - Do not validate certificates. This option is useful for
self-signed certificates or the case where you use a certificate type
that cannot be validated through one of the available protocols.

Proxy - If the Avere cluster contacts this core filer through a proxy
server, select its configuration here. Proxy configurations are
defined on the

Cluster > Proxy Configuration

 settings page.

Snapshot Policy - This drop-down menu allows you to choose a snapshot
policy for a cloud core filer. Cloud snapshot policies are configured
in the Cloud Snapshot Policies page (

Core Filer > Cloud Snapshot Policies

) before they can be selected on this page.

After selecting a policy, you can hover your mouse pointer over the
question mark help icon next to the policy name to see details.
