Administration > System Maintenance

The System Maintenance page includes controls for restarting or
shutting down elements of the cluster, and other maintenance and
troubleshooting utilities.

Caution: This page includes controls that can cause data loss,
  disrupt client access, and erase cluster configurations entirely. Be
  cautious when using these controls. Consult Avere Global Services to
  for guidance before using the tools provided on this page.


A message at the top of the page shows how many files in the cluster
cache have not yet been written (flushed) to the core filer. To avoid
potential data loss, do not perform any operations on the page until
the message reads “All files flushed.”


Cluster Services Operations

The checkbox at the top of the Cluster Services section lets you use
the cluster's high availability feature to avoid service disruption
with the actions in this section. If checked, the system coordinates
restarts to avoid putting a node and its HA partner out of service at
the same time.

If high availability is not enabled on your cluster, the option is
unavailable.

Options in this section have to do with rebooting or restarting
facilities in the cluster.

Restart cluster
   Restarts services on every node in the cluster.

   Restarting cluster services is generally a safe operation. It
   temporarily disrupts client access but does not affect client data.

Reboot cluster
   Restart every node in the cluster.

   Restarting the cluster is generally a safe operation. It
   temporarily disrupts client access but does not affect client data.

Reboot alternate
   This option restarts the cluster nodes but switches the Avere OS
   software to the version in the alternate boot image. Read

   Administration > Software Update

    to learn more about the alternate software image.

   During this process, the primary node restarts all of the other
   cluster nodes in parallel, then restarts itself. The primary node
   is listed at the bottom of this page with the phrase Currently
   connected to.

   Restarting the cluster with the alternate image is generally a safe
   operation.

Power down cluster
   Shuts down all nodes in the cluster. When a cluster is powered
   down, data in the cache is saved to storage media on the FXT nodes,
   but is not always written to the core filer.

   Powering down the cluster is generally a safe operation.

Rebalance directory managers
   Directory managers are cluster processes that track file metadata.
   Avere OS attempts to distribute the cluster's directory managers
   evenly across the cluster nodes, but if nodes are added to the
   cluster a rebalance typically is needed.

   Note: On some systems, rebalancing can take several minutes and
     can interrupt client traffic. If possible, start the rebalance
     during a low traffic time.

   This button is active only when the system detects that a node in
   the cluster has no directory managers.

Clear all conditions
   This control removes all Conditions notifications. This control
   does not dismiss Alerts.

Client Access Operations

Suspend access
   This button causes the cluster's vservers to stop accepting client
   requests. Requests to the cluster are ignored; no response is
   returned to the client.

   Suspending access is necessary before invalidating a cache,
   destroying the Avere OS cluster, or erasing disks on the cluster
   nodes.

Unsuspend access
   Re-enables client access to a suspended cluster.

Data Operations

Caution: Most of the options in this section make significant,
  permanent changes to the cluster.

  Do not use these controls without consulting

   Avere Global Services

  for advice and assistance.

These operations can be performed only on a suspended cluster. The
buttons in this section are inactive if the cluster is serving client
requests. Use the Suspend access button in the client access section
of this page to stop client access.

Invalidate cache
   Clicking this button immediately discards all cached data in the
   cluster.

   For a cache that includes client writes, this operation is

   unsafe

    unless you are certain that all changed data has been written to
   the core filers. Invalidated data cannot be recovered from the
   cluster after this operation.

Reconfigure
   The Reconfigure with current and Reconfigure with modification
   buttons destroy the cluster and immediately create a new cluster
   with the primary cluster node only. Secondary cluster nodes are
   reset to an unjoined state.

   Important: Modifying the configuration with these controls has
     the following effects:

     All secondary nodes are removed from the cluster. Only the
     primary node (listed at the bottom of the System Maintenance
     page) remains after the restart.

     Nodes might be renamed.

     All cached data is discarded. Client writes will be lost if they
     have not already been flushed to the core filers before this
     operation.

     HA and SMB settings for the cluster are discarded, even if you
     use the Reconfigure with current option.

     There is no way to retrieve the previous configuration or cache
     data after this operation.

   Contact Avere Global Services to learn more about using these
   controls.

Reboot cluster/Power down cluster
   The reboot and power down buttons in the Data section destroy the
   cluster and reset the FXT nodes to factory condition.

   Warning: These options erase the cluster completely. All
     configuration information and cached data is permanently removed,
     and all FXT nodes are left in an unclustered state.

   The bottom set of reboot and power down buttons also causes the
   system to overwrite all data on the FXT nodes' data disks with
   zeroes to ensuring that no data can be retrieved from the disks.

   Note: Zeroing an FXT node's data disks takes several hours. Allow
     the operation to run until the Avere Control Panel becomes
     unavailable. There is no progress indicator for this operation.

Note: Deleting a cluster does not destroy the cluster's Active
  Directory machine trust account (used for SMB access). You can
  delete the account manually on the AD server.
