Administration > Login Services


On the Login Services page, you can configure an LDAP or Active
Directory (AD) server to supply usernames and groups for authorizing
access to the Avere Control Panel.

Note: This page only configures directory services for the cluster
  login (Avere Control Panel). This system is not used to authenticate
  client requests (see the

  Cluster > Directory Services

   settings page to configure client access).

There are multiple steps to configuring LDAP/AD-based login services:

Use the LDAP section on this page to specify one or more LDAP or AD
servers

Use the Login section to choose LDAP as the user source

Create an AvereAdmins group in your directory services system, as
described below.

To enable secure access, you must also do the following:  Click the
Secure access checkbox on this page.  Open ports 636 and 389 to the
LDAP service.  Port 636 is used for secure LDAP (over SSL, also known
as LDAPS). Port 389 is used for STARTTLS access, which is used to
authenticate the Avere cluster using the standard LDAP port in order
to establish the LDAPS.

The Avere Admins Group

Avere OS recognizes users in a group named "AvereAdmins" as having
configuration privileges for the cluster. Users in the AvereAdmins
group automatically have full access privileges to the Avere Control
Panel and command-line interface:

AvereAdmins users have full access privileges on the Avere Control
Panel - they can both monitor and configure the cluster from the web
interface.

Users in the AvereAdmins group can make XML-RPC calls to configure the
cluster from a remote system.

You can set up this group on your AD or LDAP server. Follow the
standard procedure for creating user groups on your AD or LDAP system,
but be careful to use the correct syntax to specify group members for
your system, as explained in the note below.

Note: Depending on which system you use, the syntax for specifying
  group members is different.

  For an AD server, use the member attribute to specify group members.

  For a non-AD server with an RFC2307 schema, you must use the
  attribute memberUid.

If you use the incorrect schema to encode group members, the members
might not be recognized by the Avere system.

Specifying the Server

Use the LDAP section of the Login Services page to specify the servers
to use for authenticating users logging in to the cluster. Fill in the
directory service information as required.

LDAP Server
   Enter the IP address or fully qualified domain names for up to
   three LDAP or AD servers. Separate multiple entries with spaces.

LDAP base DN
   Enter the base name of the LDAP domain.

Secure access
   Check this box if you want the system to encrypt all LDAP
   connections.

   When you check the Secure access box, additional security options
   appear:

   Require valid certificate checkbox - Uncheck this box if you use
   self-signed certificates.

   CA certificate URI field - If using a certificate authority, you
   must specify the resource identifier for downloading a signed
   certificate in this field. Click Download Now to test the URI by
   retrieving the certificate. Otherwise, the system will attempt to
   download the certificate when you click Submit.

   In addition to the information on this page, you must make sure
   that ports 636 and 389 are open to the LDAP service, as mentioned
   in the

   first section

    of this document.

Bind DN and Bind password
   Name and password to transmit for secure LDAP connections

Specifying the Login Username Sources

Use the drop-down selector in the  Login section of the page to choose
the source for login names.


Choose Local to use only the individual accounts set up on the

Administration > Users

 page, or Local/LDAP to use both the individual accounts and the LDAP
or AD servers configured on this page.

You cannot unselect the Local option (that is, you cannot manage
logins exclusively from a directory server); the Avere Control Panel
always must have a locally defined administrator account.
