Core Filer > Cloud Snapshot Policies


The Cloud Snapshot Policies settings page lets you create automated
snapshot schedules and assign them to cloud core filers. (Snapshot
policies also can be assigned to core filers from the Core Filer
Details page - read

Snapshot Policy

 to learn more.)

Note: In addition to the automated snapshot policies configured on
  this page, you can perform manual snapshots, which occur immediately
  and do not repeat on a schedule. Manual snapshots are created from
  the Cloud Snapshots page.

Caution: While creating a snapshot, Avere OS does not cache client
  writes. During this time, file changes are written synchronously to
  the cloud core filer, which is typically much slower than writing to
  the cache. To avoid disrupting client work, keep this limitation in
  mind when deciding how to schedule cloud snapshots.

About Snapshots

Snapshots record the differences in files since the previous snapshot.

Snapshots are not a replacement for regular backups. Because Avere OS
cloud snapshots are stored in the Avere cluster, it's possible to lose
snapshot records along with the stored data if a significant failure
occurs. Avere Systems recommends backing up important data regularly
to a separate storage system.

The Avere OS snapshot feature is provided for cloud storage only. Many
NAS storage products have their own snapshot functions, which are
configured directly in those products' operating systems, but cloud
storage systems do not provide a built-in snapshot function. Avere OS
includes this basic cloud snapshot system to help cloud storage more
closely mirror the function of traditional hardware storage.

Note that a default snapshot policy is automatically created, but it
is not automatically applied to any core filer. You must enable
snapshots explicitly.

Working with the Policy List

All of the cloud snapshot policies in the cluster are listed in a
table.

You can sort the list by a column value, or filter the list by using
the search box. (Clear the search box to see all policies.)

Click the triangle at the left of a policy name to see details.

To customize or delete a policy, select it in the Actions column and
click the Modify or Delete button. Buttons appear at the top and
bottom of the table that lists the policies.

Note: You cannot delete the default policy, but you can change it.

Applying a Snapshot Policy to a Core Filer

There are two ways to apply a snapshot policy to a core filer:

From the Edit Filer panel in the Core Filer Details page:  Read
Snapshot Policy to learn more.

From the Cloud Snapshot Policies page (this page) while editing or
creating a snapshot policy:  While editing the snapshot policy, list
the core filer or filers in the policy field labeled Add Cloud Core
Filers.

Using snapshots on core filers is optional.

A snapshot policy can be applied to multiple core filers at once, but
each core filer can be assigned at most one cloud snapshot policy.

If you change a core filer's snapshot policy, old snapshots from the
previous policy are not automatically deleted. You can delete them
manually from the Cloud Snapshots page.

Creating a Snapshot Policy

Click the Create button to make a new policy.

The process is similar for modifying an existing policy - select the
policy in the Actions column and then click the Modify button.


Policy Name

Use the Name field to give the policy a distinct name.

Schedule Options

Select the type of schedules to use for this policy. You can select
one or more of the time options.

Note: Each cloud core filer can use only one snapshot policy at a
  time. If you want to keep daily and weekly snapshots, you must
  configure them in the same policy.

Specify the schedule time in 24-hour format. Snapshot times are based
on the Avere cluster's time setting.

Schedule types include:

Hourly - Takes several snapshots each day. Choose from one of the
preset time schedules, or choose Custom and enter the times to save
snapshots in the text field. (The Default Snapshot Time setting does
not apply to hourly snapshot schedules.)  Hourly snapshots are not
recommended because they can cause performance issues when the data is
frequently modified. The overhead required to synchronize snapshots to
cloud storage is more significant than the overhead for NAS snapshots,
so creating multiple snapshots per day should be avoided - especially
for filers that store a large number of temporary files that will be
created and discarded within a day.

Daily - Takes one snapshot a day. Set the time by using the Default
Snapshot Time setting near the top of the panel.

Weekly - Takes one snapshot a week, on the first day of the week
(typically Sunday). Set the snapshot time by using the Default
Snapshot Time setting near the top of the panel.

Monthly - Takes one snapshot a month, on the first day of the month.
Set the snapshot time by using the Default Snapshot Time setting near
the top of the panel.

Maximum Snapshot Count

The Maximum Snapshot Count value is the number of snapshots to keep.
After this number is reached, the oldest snapshots from that schedule
category (in this policy) are deleted.

Add Cloud Core Filers

Optionally, you can apply this policy to one or more core filers
immediately by specifying them in the Add Cloud Core Filers field.

If you specify a core filer that already has a snapshot policy, a pop-
up window will ask you to confirm the policy change. Click OK to
change the policy, or click Cancel to keep the previously assigned
snapshot policy. Changes to the content of the policy are saved even
if you cancel assigning it to a core filer.

Note that snapshots from a previously used policy are not
automatically deleted.

Policy Note

The Note field lets you store additional information about this
policy. Creating a note is optional.

Saving the Policy

After configuring the settings that you want, click the Create Policy
button at the bottom of the panel to save your configuration. (If you
are modifying an existing policy, the button is labeled Modify
Policy.)

If you change your mind, click Cancel to abandon the settings and
return to the last saved state.
