Cluster > Cloud Credentials


The Cloud Credentials page lists cloud service access keys that are
stored for the cluster. The cluster uses these credentials to access
cloud core filers.

You can use this page to store a new credential, or to change or
remove a stored credential. (You also can add a new cloud credential
to the cluster when defining a cloud core filer.)

Note that this interface only stores credentials for the cluster to
use; you must create the credential with your cloud provider's tools
before defining it here. The process for creating credentials varies
by provider, but it typically involves creating a user with the
appropriate cloud access privileges, then copying the user's key ID
and secret key. Enter that information in this settings page to store
the credential for the Avere cluster's use.

Adding a Cloud Credential

Click the Add Credential button to bring up the form for storing a new
cloud credential.


Credential Name
   Enter a name to use when displaying this credential in the Avere
   Control Panel.

Service Type
   Select the cloud provider or credential format for this entry.

Note: Different credential options appear for different service
  types. The access key/private key options below are used for AWS S3
  style credentials, but other service types might require you to
  specify different attributes.

Access Key
   Enter the access key used with your cloud provider. Note that the
   access key and the private key are a matched pair; if you change
   one you must change the other one.

Private Key
   Enter the private key used with your cloud provider. Note that the
   access key and the private key are a matched pair; if you change
   one you must change the other one.

Note
   Optionally, add a text note about this credential.

Remember to click Submit to save the values.

Modifying a Cloud Credential


Click the Modify button in the Actions column to update the credential
listed in that row.

The Modify Credential form includes the same settings as the Create
form, but also shows any core filers that use the credential. Consider
the possible effects on core filers before submitting changes.

Removing a Cloud Credential

To remove a cloud service key from the cluster, locate it in the list
and click the Remove button in its Actions column.

You cannot remove a cloud credential that is in use.

Note that this interface does not destroy the key set; it only deletes
it from the cluster's list of stored credentials. The key set still
exists on the cloud system.
