Cluster > Certificates


The Certificates page shows X.509 certificates that are stored in the
cluster. These certificates can be used in Key Management
Interoperability Protocol (KMIP) operations or to encrypt
communication between the cluster and the administrator (that is, for
the Avere Control Panel or command-line API).

Currently, Avere OS supports KMIP only for cloud core filer
encryption.

These are the basic steps in enabling KMIP for a cluster:

Create an X.509 certificate, or import an external certificate (on
this page)  To create a certificate:  Generate a Certificate Signing
Request (CSR)  Email the CSR to a certificate authority (CA) for
signing  Upload the signed response to store the certificate in the
cluster  To import a certificate, you need a PEM-encoded version of
the private key and signed certificate.

Create a KMIP server (on the Cluster > KMIP Servers page)

Specify the KMIP server as the encryption key store for a cloud core
filer. You can specify the KMIP server when you create the cloud core
filer (Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer) or on the Cluster >
Cloud Credentials settings page.

The Certificates settings page has several controls to help you manage
X.509 certificates and create new ones.


Working With the Certificates List

The table that lists the certificates includes features to help you
focus on the information that interests you.

Filtering

Use the filter selector at the top left (1) to restrict the type of
certificate shown in the list.


Choose All to return to the unfiltered list.

Sorting

Click a column header to sort the list by that value.

Searching

Enter a string in the Search field above the list to display only
certificates with attributes that match that text.

Detail Views

Click the triangular control next to a certificate name (4) to expand
the list entry and show more information about the certificate.

At the bottom of the expanded information panel is a details link (5).
Click the link to show the certificate's attributes (version, serial
number, signature algorithm, issuer, valid dates, public key
information and algorithm, extensions, signature algorithm, and other
attributes).

Creating a New Signed Certificate

As mentioned above, you can use the controls on this page to generate
a signing request and to upload the completed request for use by the
cluster.

If you want to use a certificate that is not signed by a CA, or to
import a previously created certificate, you can skip the CSR step and
use the Add or Import controls.

Generating a Certificate Signing Request

The first step in generating an externally validated X.509 certificate
is to create a Certificate Signing Request (CSR) to send to a
certificate authority (CA). The system's SSL software uses the
cluster's private key to create a public key and combines that with
the information supplied here to generate an encoded request.

Click the Generate CSR button at the top of the list (2).


Enter the requested information. You must supply a value for each
attribute.

Common Name
   For server certificates, enter the fully qualified domain name or
   hostname of your server. For client certificates, enter any unique
   value.

Organization
   The legal name of the organization

Unit
   The division or unit of the organization that handles the
   certificate

City/Location
   Location of the organization

State/Province
   The country region where the organization is located

Country
   Enter the two-character ISO code for the country where the
   organization is located.

Certificate Type
   You can create a Client or Server certificate. A client certificate
   is needed to authenticate the Avere OS cluster to the KMIP server.

After configuring the requested information, click Generate CSR. The
system shows a pop-up window with the request text to send to the
certificate authority.

Obtaining a CA Signature

To get the request signed by an authority, copy the text from the
certificate request and email it to your certificate authority.
Request that the authority sign the certificate request.

The CA will send you a signed version of the certificate in response.
Copy the response, and use the Add button to upload it to the cluster.

Adding the Signed Certificate

To add the signed certificate to the cluster, use the Add button. A
window pops up with a large text field labeled Add PEM encoded
certificate. Copy the text that the CA returned in response to your
CSR, and paste it into the field. Click the Add Certificate button at
the bottom of the pop-up window to save the signed certificate.


Note the difference between the Add and Import options. The Add button
is for adding the certificate returned from a CSR created in the Avere
Control Panel, so the Upload Certificate panel has only one text
field, for the certificate. Avere OS automatically associates the
private key from the CSR with the certificate added in this panel.

When importing a certificate, you must provide both the private key
and the certificate, so the Import Certificate panel has two text
fields. Click the Import button to upload an external certificate.

Importing a Certificate

You can import a certificate that was created elsewhere. To add an
existing certificate to the Avere OS cluster, you must provide the
certificate text and the private key that was used to create it. Both
of these values should be in PEM format.

To import a certificate, click the Import button.


Paste the private key in the upper box and the certificate in the
lower box. Include headers and footers - that is, the private key text
should begin with a statement like "-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----" and
end with the corresponding footer.

Click the Add Certificate button at the bottom of the pop-up window to
save the certificate.

Deleting a Certificate

To remove a certificate, click the Actions checkbox (3) in the table
row of the certificate that you want to remove, then click the Remove
button at the top of the list (2). This completely removes the
certificate from the Avere cluster.
