Cluster > Directory Services


Use the Directory Services settings page to specify where to read user
and group information. These services are used to populate user and
group information tables in the Avere OS system that are used to
authenticate users for access control.

Note: The settings on this page are used for client requests to the
  cluster and back-end core filers. Do not confuse this cluster
  directory services configuration with the cluster administrative
  login settings, which also can be managed by an LDAP or AD server.
  Read

  Using the Avere Control Panel

   and the

  Administration > Users

   and

  Administration > Login Services

   page documentation to learn more.

The cluster comes with one configuration, named default. You cannot
rename the default configuration, but you can customize it with your
directory services settings.

There are two methods for editing the default configuration:

Configuration Wizard (Modify button) - A step-by-step process guides
you through setting up directory services for SMB users, NFS users, or
both. The configuration wizard can be especially helpful when you need
to create the initial configuration for a new cluster. Open the
configuration wizard by checking the box in the Actions column and
clicking Modify.

Configuration details page (link from configuration name) - The
details page shows all settings in the current configuration, and
allows you to change them. It also gives information about the most
recent poll.  Open the configuration details page by clicking the
configuration name (default).

Choosing a Download Source

If your user and group information (RFC 2307 attributes) are stored in
an Active Directory server, you should choose AD as your cluster's
download source. AD integrates well with Kerberos and provides
smoother access to trusted domains. It also avoids using the LDAP-
style "uid" attribute, and automatically differentiates identical
usernames from different domains.

Using LDAP to download RFC 2307 attributes is most useful in cases
where user and group IDs are shared across domains. That is, a
particular username represents the same entity in all domains that
access the cluster.

Using the Configuration Wizard

Check the Actions column checkbox and click the Modify button to open
the configuration wizard.


In the first page, select which types of users will access the system.

The CIFS option lets you configure SMB, which allows users from
Microsoft Windows clients to access the cluster.

The NFS option lets you configure settings to allow access from
clients on Unix-style filesystems.

Select both options to configure access for all supported types of
clients.

If you choose both SMB and NFS, the wizard shows settings for each
type of access on subsequent pages. The settings appear in individual
panels, with SMB at the top of the page and NFS at the bottom of the
page.


Configuration settings for SMB and for NFS are described separately in
the next two sections of this document.

SMB Configuration Settings

NFS Configuration Settings

Configuration Wizard Settings - SMB

If SMB is selected on the first page, the directory services
configuration wizard includes these options in pages two and three.

Note that additional SMB-related settings are defined in the VServer
settings pages, specifically in the CIFS and CIFS Shares pages. (The
CIFS page includes the control that enables SMB for the cluster.) Read

Configuring SMB Access

 to learn more.

Also, if you need to map Windows usernames to NFS usernames, you must
add the username mapping information on the

The Directory Services Configuration Details Page

 page after completing the steps in the wizard. The

SMB/NFS Username Mapping

 setting does not appear in the wizard.

Username Source for SMB

The second page of the directory services wizard asks you to choose
the type of service. This setting determines how the system gets
username and group names for SMB clients.

Note that an Active Directory (AD) server is required for SMB access.
Even if you use a different source for the username and group name
information, you must configure an AD server in the next page of the
wizard.


Choose one of the listed options to set the source for SMB user and
group names.

Important: Choose the source that has the most complete set of user
  and group names on your system. If your cluster accepts client
  requests from both Windows and Unix style clients, you might need to
  manually import Windows usernames from the AD server into an LDAP
  server, or import the set of Unix usernames into the AD server's
  records. Typically, an AD server includes Windows client information
  only.

Active Directory - If Active Directory is selected, the system will
use the AD server to look up usernames and groups. AD server
information is entered in the next page of the wizard.

LDAP Server - Select A separate LDAP server from the AD server to
import user and group information from an LDAP server that is not used
as the cluster's active directory server. LDAP server information is
configured in the next page of the wizard.

NIS - Select NIS to use a Network Information Service protocol server
to get user and group names. NIS server information is entered in the
next page of the wizard.

File - Choose File to define usernames and group names in an external
file. The file location is specified on the next page of the wizard.

None - Select I don't have any if your system does not use usernames
or groups. You still must set up an AD server for general SMB access.

Click Next to proceed to page three.

Active Directory Configuration for SMB


Note: Depending on the selection in page two, page three also might
  include an LDAP section, an NIS section, or a file section, in
  addition to the NFS domain and polling period fields that appear in
  this screenshot. Each of these sections is described separately.

The third page of the wizard includes AD server configuration
information.

Even if you do not use Active Directory for user authentication, some
SMB features in the Avere OS cluster require an AD connection to
populate user and group lists.

AD Domain
   Enter the fully qualified domain name of the active directory
   domain for the cluster, and click the Lookup button to populate
   these settings:

   AD domain (NetBIOS)

   Domain controller

   DC site

   FXT site

   (Note that these settings are not saved until you click the Submit
   button.)

Trusted Active Directory Domains
   Use the Trusted Active Directory Domains field to specify the names
   of active directory domains that the system can use to download
   user and group information.  Separate multiple domains with spaces.

   Leave this field blank if you want the system only to download user
   and group information from the AD server's domain.

   Enter an asterisk (*) in this field to allow the cluster to
   download user and group information from any trusted domain.

LDAP Server Configuration for SMB

If you choose to read username and group information from a separate
LDAP server, configure the server's settings on page three of the
configuration wizard.


LDAP Server
   Enter the fully qualified domain name or IP address for the LDAP
   server to use. You can enter up to three LDAP servers, separated by
   spaces.

LDAP Base DN
   Specify the base distinguished name for the LDAP domain. LDAP
   queries are performed on the base DN, the DN of the entry, and all
   entries below it in the directory tree. Ask your LDAP administrator
   if you don’t know your base DN.

   Base and bind DN entries use a similar format. So, for example, if
   the domain name is “ourdomain.server.company.com”, the DN entry is
   in the form  "ou=ourdomain,dc=server,dc=company,dc=com"

Secure Access
   Check this box to encrypt LDAP connections with TLS/SSL. After
   checking this box, two additional options appear:

   Require valid certificate - Check this box to accept only
   externally validated certificates. This option is enabled by
   default.

   CA Certificate URI - This field appears when the Require valid
   certificate box is checked. Enter the certificate authority
   information. Check the Auto-download box to attempt to download a
   certificate as soon as you submit this configuration.  If you are
   using a self-signed certificate, leave the URI field blank and
   check the auto-download box.

Credentials
   To use static credentials for secure LDAP, check this box and
   specify a Bind DN identity and Bind password in the fields that
   appear.


User base DN
   Optionally, specify the base distinguished name for downloading
   user information. If not specified, "DN" is the default value.

Group base DN
   Optionally, specify the base distinguished name for downloading
   group information. If not specified, "DN" is the default value.

NIS Configuration for SMB

If you choose to read username and group information from a NIS
server, configure the following NIS server settings on page three of
the wizard.

You can specify up to three servers. Configuring more than one server
is recommended to avoid risk if one server fails.


NIS Server
   Specify the fully qualified domain names or IP addresses of up to
   three NIS servers. Separate names with a space.

NIS Domain
   Enter the name of your NIS domain. This is the single domain to
   which the NIS is bound.

User/Group File Parameters for SMB

If you choose to read username and group information from a file,
specify the file information on page three of the wizard.


Group file URI
   Enter the filename and unique path for your system's etc/group
   file.

Password file URI
   Enter the filename and unique path for your system's etc/passwd
   file.

NFS Domain and Polling Interval for SMB

Settings for an optional NFS v4 ACL domain and username/group name
polling interval always appear on the third page of the directory
services configuration wizard when SMB is selected.


NFS Domain
   Optionally, specify an NFS-style domain to use for NFSv4 ACL
   operations.

Polling interval

   Use the control labeled How often should the cluster re-read the
   user and group name information? to select a polling period. Choose
   one of the preset time values, Custom, or Manual to never poll
   automatically.

   After selecting Custom, a field appears so that you can enter the
   number of seconds to use as the polling period.

Configuration Wizard Settings - NFS

If NFS is selected on the first page, the directory services
configuration wizard includes these options in pages two and three.

Username/Group Name Source for NFS


Choose one of the options to set the source for user and group names.

LDAP Server - Select LDAP to import user and group information from an
LDAP server. Configure the server information in the third page of the
wizard.

NIS - Select NIS to use a Network Information Service protocol server
to get user and group names. Configure the server in the third page of
the wizard.

File - Choose File to define usernames and group names in an external
file. Specify the file in the third page of the wizard.

None - Select I'll decide later / I am not using netgroups if your
system does not use usernames or groups.  If you choose this option,
no further configuration is necessary and the Next button changes to
Add Config. (There is no third page.)

LDAP Server Configuration for NFS

If you choose to read username and group information from an LDAP
server, configure the following settings for the server.


LDAP Server
   Enter the fully qualified domain name or IP address for the LDAP
   server to use. You can enter up to three LDAP servers, separated by
   spaces.

Secure Access
   Check this box to encrypt LDAP connections with TLS/SSL. After
   checking this box,  additional options appear:

   Require valid certificate - Check this box to accept only
   externally validated certificates. This option is enabled by
   default.

   CA Certificate URI - This field appears when the Require valid
   certificate box is checked. Enter the certificate authority
   information. Check the Auto-download box to attempt to download a
   certificate as soon as you submit this configuration.  If you are
   using a self-signed certificate, leave the URI field blank and
   check the auto-download box.

   Credentials - To use static credentials for secure LDAP, check this
   box and specify a Bind DN identity and Bind password in the fields
   that appear. (A screenshot with these extra fields appears in LDAP
   Server Configuration for SMB.)

LDAP Base DN
   Specify the base distinguished name for the LDAP domain. LDAP
   queries are performed on the base DN, the DN of the entry, and all
   entries below it in the directory tree. Ask your LDAP administrator
   if you don’t know your base DN.

   Base and bind DN entries use a similar format. So, for example, if
   the domain name is “ourdomain.server.company.com”, the DN entry is
   in the form  "ou=ourdomain,dc=server,dc=company,dc=com"

NIS Parameters for NFS

If you choose to read username and group information from a NIS
server, configure the following settings for the server. You can
configure one server that will be used for both username and group
information.


NIS Server
   Specify the fully qualified domain names or IP addresses of up to
   three NIS servers.  Separate names with a space.

NIS Domain
   Enter the name of your NIS domain. This is the single domain to
   which the NIS is bound.

User/Group File Parameters for NFS

If you choose to read username and group information from a file,
configure the following settings.


Group file URI
   Enter the filename and unique path for your system's etc/group
   file.

Polling Interval for NFS

Use the control labeled How often should the cluster re-read the user
and group name information? to select a polling period. Choose one of
the preset time values, Custom, or Manual to never poll automatically.

   After selecting Custom, a field appears so that you can enter the
   number of seconds to use as the polling period.

   Read

   Manual Polling

    to learn more about refreshing the username and group information
   on demand.

The Directory Services Configuration Details Page

The configuration details page shows recent username and group poll
times, and an editable version of the current configuration.

Open the configuration details page by clicking the hyperlinked
configuration name (default).

Click the Directory Services link at the top of the page to return to
the main directory services settings page. (The directory services
configuration details page does not appear in the left navigation
menu.)


The page has two main configuration panels: one labeled CIFS that
shows settings for SMB access (by Microsoft Windows clients), and one
labeled NFS that shows settings for Unix-style filesystem access.

Different items are shown on this page based on the configuration
options that are already selected. Options can change if you change
the settings. For example, switching from AD to NIS as the SMB source
causes configuration options for the NIS server to appear in the CIFS
User/Group Name panel.

A few directory services settings appear only on this page; you cannot
configure them in the wizard. Settings that are accessed from the
configuration details page include:

Dashboard Conditions

CIFS to NFS User Overrides (SMB only)

Domain Controller Access Overrides (SMB only)

Dashboard Conditions


Check the Enable dashboard conditions box to report inconsistencies in
the user/group database as alerts on the Avere Control Panel
*dashboard*.

Manual Polling

The Polling Period control lets you select the interval at which to
re-read the username and groups information.

If you select Manual, the system never re-reads the username and group
file.

You can use the Poll Now button to manually refresh the user and group
information at any time.

SMB/NFS Username Mapping

In some cases, the same user can have different usernames on a Windows
domain and on an NFS domain. The section labeled CIFS User to NFS User
Overrides allows you to specify a flat file that maps Windows
usernames and group names to their NFS equivalents.


Read

Appendix E: SMB-UNIX Username Mapping

 to learn more about the file format.

This section also has polling controls to set how frequently the
override file is read.

Static Domain Controller Mapping

In the Domain Controller Address Overrides section, you can assign
particular domain controllers for specific domain names in the
cluster.

The system does not attempt to automatically detect domain controllers
for the domain names with static mappings.

This feature can be used to skip an unnecessary step if your system
uses a known set of domain controllers, and that set will not change.
It also allows you to work around network problems or other quirks
that might cause the system to choose inappropriate domain controllers
for your cluster.


Set the following parameters:

Domain (FQDN)

   Enter the fully qualified domain name for the domain that will be
   statically mapped to domain controllers.

Domain (Netbios)

   Enter the AD NetBIOS name associated with the override.

DC Addresses

   Enter IP addresses for domain controllers that the domain should
   use. Avere Systems recommends specifying at least two domain
   controllers so that the cluster remains available if one of the
   domain controllers goes down.

Click Add Override to save the settings when finished.
