Setting Up Kerberos Authentication

Configuring and enabling Kerberos authentication on an Avere OS
cluster involves several different settings pages in the Avere Control
Panel. There are two basic pathways where an administrator might want
to enable Kerberos:

For communication between clients and the cluster

For communication between the cluster and core filers

This document explains how the various settings are used to support
Kerberos in either or both situations on an Avere cluster.

Client-cluster Kerberos is configured by setting export rules on a
junction or export. Read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

 for details.

Kerberos authentication between the cluster and a core filer is
configured on the

Cluster > Kerberos

 settings page, and it applies to all exports.

Kerberos Elements

Kerberos uses a remote server (the Key Distribution Center, or KDC) to
authenticate users and grant tickets.

Known key sets can be stored in keytab files to avoid requiring a
password for each transaction. When Kerberos is enabled the Avere
cluster stores a keytab file for communication with core filers, and
clients can optionally store local keytab files for communication with
the cluster's vservers.

Kerberos also uses the concept of a

realm

. The Avere cluster and its core filers must be in the same realm;
client requests can come from different realms as long as they are
trusted realms.

Common Configuration Elements

The KDC and realm parameters are used by all Kerberos transactions in
the cluster - both client-vserver operations and cluster-core filer
operations use these settings.

KDC and realm settings are made on the

Kerberos

 settings page in the Cluster section of the settings tab.

Optionally, DNS can be used to map a client DNS domain to a particular
realm. Details are included in

Kerberos

.

Client-Cluster Configuration Elements

To enable Kerberos authentication between clients and the cluster, you
must configure Kerberos settings for the cluster's vservers.

If your cluster has multiple vservers, each one can have a different
setting and a different keytab file.

Enabling Kerberos for a VServer

The settings to turn on Kerberos authentication for a particular
vserver are made on the

VServer > NFS

 page. If your cluster has multiple vservers, select the vserver to
configure by using the control at the top of the page.

The

VServer > NFS

 page has the following Kerberos settings:

Enable Kerberos checkbox
   This checkbox is active only if you have already set the KDC and
   realm parameters on the Kerberos configuration page (as described
   above in

   Common Configuration Elements

   ). The checkbox turns on Kerberos for client communication to this
   vserver.

VServer Keytab File

   You can upload a Kerberos keytab file to store keys used for
   communication between  clients and this vserver. (This is not the
   same file used for cluster-core filer communication.)

Enabling Kerberos for a Core Filer Export

VServers also manage core filer exports, which provide the client-
facing view of content on a core filer. Kerberos can be enabled at the
export level by customizing export rules.

Use the

VServer > Export Rules

 page to modify the default rule or create a new rule that allows
Kerberos authentication. The Rule Definition panel includes a section
labeled Authentication Flavors. Options are UNIX/SYS (enabled by
default) and Kerberos5 (not enabled by default). The Kerberos checkbox
is not active if the KDC and realm parameters have not been configured
(see

Common Configuration Elements

, above).

You can select one or both types of authentication.

Export rules can be restricted with additional filters for scope.
Rules make up an

export policy

, which are also created and modified on the

Export Rules

 settings page.

Export policies are applied to individual core filer exports on the

Export Policies page

.

Cluster-Core Filer Configuration Elements

To enable Kerberos authentication between the cluster and a core
filer, there are two steps to take after setting up the KDC and realm
parameters on the Kerberos configuration page (described above in

Common Configuration Elements

).

Upload a cluster-level keytab file.  Use the Cluster > Kerberos
settings page to upload a keytab file. This file is used for cluster
to core filer communications, and is not the same as the vserver-level
file that is defined on the VServer > NFS page.

Turn on Kerberos authentication for the particular core filer.  Use
the Core Filer > Core Filer Details page to allow Kerberos
authentication for the core filer that is selected in the page. A
Enable Kerberos checkbox appears in the Edit Filer panel.
