Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer

This section walks through the process of adding a new core filer to
your Avere cluster. This section is customized for core filers that
use cloud storage on the back end; the process is different for a core
filer that uses NAS storage. Read

Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer

 for details.

Prerequisites for Adding a New Cloud Core Filer

Before starting to configure the cloud core filer on the cluster, make
sure you have the following information.

A valid and active license for FlashCloud on this cluster. Read
Appendix A: Adding or Removing Feature Licenses for more information.

An existing user credential for your cloud storage provider, or the
access and private keys needed to add a cloud credential to the Avere
cluster. Create this credential in your cloud system and copy the ID
code and secret key. You can add the credential to the cluster in the
Cluster > Cloud Credentials page before adding the core filer, or from
within the Add New Core Filer wizard when defining a cloud core filer.

The name of an existing cloud storage container. Read Using Cloud
Storage As A Core Filer to learn more about instantiating a cloud core
filer.

Encryption details - whether or not to encrypt the core filer, and the
type of key storage used. If using KMIP, you should have a key server
set up before creating the core filer; read Configuring KMIP for an
Avere cluster to learn how.

If adding a cloud core filer on a vFXT cluster that is hosted on
Amazon Web Services, you might need to update an IAM policy to make
sure that your vFXT nodes will be permitted to access the new storage.
Read Appendix H: Updating Cloud Storage Permissions for an AWS vFXT
Cluster.

The Add New Core Filer wizard guides you through the steps to define a
new storage entity for your cluster. Start the wizard by clicking the
Create button from the Manage Core Filers page.

New Core Filer Wizard

Start the New Core Filer wizard by clicking Create on the

Core Filer > Manage Core Filers

 settings page.

The options are different for each type of core filer - select Cloud
to define a core filer that uses cloud storage.


Fill in the required fields:

Core filer name - Set the name for this core filer. Use a name that
cluster administrators will understand; this value does not need to
match the name of the actual storage container on the cloud provider.

Network - If your cluster has more than one network, select the
network that this core filer will use to communicate with the cluster.

Click Next to continue.

Caching Policy


On the second page of the wizard, choose the caching policy for this
core filer.

Read

Manage Cache Policies

 to learn more about customizing cache settings.

Click Next to continue.

Cloud Service and Protocol


On the third page, specify details about the cloud storage service.

Service type - Select one of the cloud service types. These types are
predefined in the Avere system; contact Avere Global Services if the
provider or service type that you want is not listed.  Some options
are preconfigured when you select a particular service. For example,
selecting Cleversafe cloud storage automatically enables SSL (Use
HTTPS) and specifies port 443.

Cloud Credential - From the next drop-down list, select an existing
credential, or choose Create a new credential set to define a new one.
If you select the new credential option, additional fields appear so
that you can specify the credential name, access key, and private key
for the user account that the Avere cluster will use to access this
core filer.  Cloud credential options in the new core filer wizard  To
learn more about these options, read Cluster > Cloud Credentials.

Bucket contents - Specify whether the cloud storage container is
currently populated with Avere-managed files (that is, it was
previously used as an Avere core filer) or if it is empty. Note that
to reuse a container with Avere-managed files, you must use the same
encryption setting and the same key that was previously used with this
container.  You will enter more specific bucket information on the
next page.  Each cloud filer can be associated with only one bucket,
and each bucket can be associated with only one cloud core filer. This
means that:  If you use an existing bucket, and choose Empty, you will
no longer be able to access any information in that bucket. Core filer
creation might fail if you choose an existing bucket that contains
data.  If you intend to create a new bucket, and choose Existing Avere
data, you will later be asked for an encryption key to access the
bucket. If you are trying to access a bucket that did not previously
exist, you will not be able to access it (there will be no encryption
key), and you will have to re-create the cloud filer.

Use nearline bucket (Google Cloud storage only) - This checkbox allows
you to mark this cloud core filer as a Nearline Storage bucket. (Avere
OS does not verify whether or not the cloud object is actually
configured as a Nearline Storage bucket.)  Nearline storage is
designed for archive use, and writing data to this type of bucket can
incur data transfer fees.  Nearline storage is the only one of the
three Google Cloud Storage classes (Standard, Durable Reduced
Availability (DRA), and Nearline), that must be explicitly enabled. Be
sure that you understand the cost implications of using a Nearline
bucket as a core filer before you select this option.

Use HTTPS - Check this box to use the secure web protocol in
communications between the cloud and the cluster.  Depending on the
cloud service type, a Port field appears when HTTPS is selected. If
your cloud provider does not use the standard SSL port, 443, enter the
port or range of ports into the Port field. For some cloud services,
the port is not configurable.  Separate port numbers or ranges with
spaces - for example, 7070 7072-7074 defines four ports: 7070, 7072,
7073, and 7074.

Certificate verification - Specify the method to use to authenticate
the SSL certificate provided by the cloud storage system.  Select
Disabled to trust all certificates.  Choose OCSP to use the Online
Certificate Status Protocol.  Choose CRL to use Certificate Revocation
Lists.  Select OCSP_CRL to use CRL as a fallback method if OCSP
verification fails. (This is the default value.)

Compression mode - If you want to compress objects before they are
written to the cloud core filer, select LZ4 compression.  You can
change compression options at any time; objects written to this core
filer are either compressed or uncompressed according to the setting
at the time they are written.

Snapshot policy - Optionally, specify one of the existing cloud core
filer snapshot policies. Create or modify snapshot policies on the
Core Filer > Cloud Snapshot Policies page. You can add a snapshot
policy later on the Core Filer > Core Filer Details page.

Proxy configuration - Optionally, select one of the cluster's proxy
server configurations to use when communicating with this core filer.
Proxy server configurations are defined on the Cluster > Proxy
Configuration page; you can add a proxy server to the core filer later
on the Core Filer > Core Filer Details page.

Bucket Details

The fourth page of the Add New Core Filer wizard for cloud storage has
settings for the storage container.

The options are different for populated storage and for empty storage,
and different cloud services also show different options.

Configuring an Empty Bucket


Set these options for a bucket that has not previously been used for
Avere storage.

Bucket name - Enter the name of the bucket that has been or will be
created on the cloud provider's network.  This name must match the
actual bucket name on the cloud system.

Network hostname (some cloud providers only) - Enter the hostname or
IP address of the endpoint that will be used to access this bucket.
Avere Systems strongly recommends using the fully qualified domain
name for the region-specific endpoint in this field.  Only certain
cloud storage providers require this configuration. If this field does
not appear, it is not required for the selected provider.

Encryption type - Choose an encryption algorithm (AES-256 is currently
the only option) or choose None to leave the storage volume
unencrypted.  The encryption type cannot be changed later.

Encryption key store - Select the type of key storage used. You can
choose a simple key file stored locally on the cluster, or select a
KMIP server in the cluster. (KMIP servers are configured in the
Cluster section; read Configuring KMIP for an Avere cluster to learn
more.)  If you choose local storage (Simple Key), you will be prompted
to create and download an encryption key after the core filer is
created. Read Encryption Recovery Key and Passphrase, below, for
details.

Configuring a Populated Bucket


If you selected Existing Avere data in the Bucket contents setting,
this page asks you to fill in the storage information.

Bucket name - Enter the name of the bucket on the cloud provider's
network.

Network hostname (some cloud providers only) - Enter the hostname or
IP address of the endpoint that will be used to access this bucket.
(For example: cloud-server-round-robin-dns.mycompany.com) Avere
Systems strongly recommends using the fully qualified domain name for
the region-specific endpoint in this field.  Only certain cloud
storage providers require the network hostname; others determine the
endpoint automatically. If this field does not appear, it is not
required for the selected provider.

Encryption type - If the bucket contents were previously encrypted,
you must select the same encryption type as before.  If the bucket was
unencrypted, you can choose an encryption algorithm (AES-256 is
currently the only option) or choose None to leave the storage volume
unencrypted.

Encryption key store - Select the type of key storage used.  If the
bucket contents were encrypted the last time it was used with an Avere
cluster, this section will prompt you to upload the old encryption
key, then create a new encryption key that incorporates the old key.
(Uploading the old key happens before step one in the process
described below in Encryption Recovery Key and Passphrase.)  You can
choose a simple key file stored locally on the cluster, or select a
KMIP server in the cluster. (KMIP servers are configured in the
Cluster section; read Configuring KMIP for an Avere cluster to learn
more.)  If you choose local storage (Simple Key), you will be prompted
to create and download an encryption key after the core filer is
created. Read Encryption Recovery Key and Passphrase, below, for
details.

Saving Settings

When all of the settings are complete, click Add Filer to create the
new cloud core filer. The Avere Control Panel dashboard might display
warnings during the creation process, but the warnings should clear
within a few minutes.

Encryption Recovery Key and Passphrase

If you chose to encrypt your cloud core filer and store the encryption
key locally, additional wizard screens appear after the core filer is
created. The core filer cannot be used until an encryption key and
passphrase are created for the data on the core filer.

This passphrase and recovery key file are associated with encrypting
your data on the cloud core filer. If you decommission this cluster
and want to use the cloud bucket as a core filer for another Avere
cluster, you will need these two items to allow the new cluster to
decrypt the data stored there.

There are three steps to create and store the encryption recovery key:

Generate the key on the Avere cluster by setting a passphrase.

Download the key file to a local system.

Upload the key file to the cluster.

These settings also can be made or changed on the

Core Filer > Cloud Encryption Settings

 page.

Generate and Download the Key

The first screen asks you to enter a passphrase. Avere OS will create
an encryption key associated with the passphrase.


A passphrase is different from a password because it can contain
spaces, symbols, and punctuation in addition to uppercase and
lowercase letters. It must be fewer than 50 characters. Make sure that
you can remember the passphrase for future use, or store it securely.

When you click Next, Avere Control Panel attempts to download the
recovery key to your local system. Note the location of the downloaded
file, since you will need to upload it in the next step.

Upload and Activate the Key

In the next screen, you must upload the key recovery file that you
just downloaded. Click Choose file and browse to the recovery file
where it is stored.

The filename starts with the cluster name and has a file extension
that is a long series of digits, typically starting with 1 and
including more than ten zeroes.


If the download failed, click the Redownload button to try again.

After specifying the key file to upload, click Next. When the file
uploads successfully, the encryption configuration is complete and the
cloud core filer setup is finished.
