Adding a New Core Filer - NAS Core Filer

This section walks through the process of adding a new core filer to
your Avere cluster. This section is customized for core filers that
use NFS NAS devices as back-end storage; the process is different for
a core filer that uses cloud storage. Read

Adding a New Core Filer - Cloud Core Filer

 for details.

Prerequisites for Adding a New NAS Core Filer

Before starting to configure the core filer on the cluster, make sure
you have the following information.

The fully qualified domain name of the core filer (for example,
nas1.example.com).  Note that you must use the domain name instead of
an IP address in order to access the core filer with SMB.

The Add New Core Filer wizard guides you through the steps to define a
new storage entity. Start the wizard by clicking the Create button
from the Manage Core Filer page.

New Core Filer Wizard

Start the New Core Filer wizard from the

Core Filer > Manage Core Filers

 settings page.

The options are different for each type of core filer - select NAS to
define an NFS-based hardware storage system.


Fill in the required fields:

Core filer name - Set the name for this core filer. Use a name that
cluster administrators will understand; this value does not need to
match the name of the actual storage system.

Core filer network name/IP - Enter the IP address, network name, or
the fully qualified domain name of the core filer.  Use the fully
qualified domain name if this core filer will be accessed by Windows
clients over SMB.

Filer class - Select the hardware type that corresponds to the back-
end storage system, or choose Other if the type is not listed.  The
initial value in the Filer Class selector might not be the correct
value for your NAS core filer. Be certain to check the value and set
it appropriately. An incorrect filer class setting can cause problems
with SMB access to the core filer.

Network - If your cluster has more than one network, select the
network that this core filer will use to communicate with the cluster.

Click Next to continue.


On the second page of the wizard, choose the caching policy for this
core filer.

Read

Manage Cache Policies

 to learn more about customizing cache settings.

Click Add Filer again to create the new NAS core filer. The Avere
Control Panel dashboard might display warnings during the creation
process.
