Avere Control Panel Settings

This page gives a brief overview of each section in the Settings tab
on the Avere Control Panel.

Click the links in the text below to see a detailed description for
each settings page.

Use these links to jump to a particular section in this overview:

Creating and Working with VServers

Managing Core Filers

Cluster Settings Overview

Administration Settings Overview

Creating and Working with VServers

The vserver is a virtual file server that receives and processes all
client requests for your storage system.

You can use one vserver for your entire cluster, or have more than
one.

Note: In early versions of Avere OS it was mandatory to have one
  vserver per core filer. This is no longer true, and most
  administrators set up a

  global namespace

   configuration, in which one vserver can handle requests for
  multiple core filers.The global namespace configuration also allows
  vservers to show a client-side virtual filesystem that does not
  necessarily correspond exactly to back-end storage.A legacy option
  called

  simple namespace

   also exists in the product.

The vserver is created by the nodes that make up your cluster. It does
not reside in any one node.

Before setting up your cluster, you should decide how many vservers to
create, and whether they will use the Avere OS global namespace (GNS)
feature, or be configured for simple namespace. You must choose the
namespace type when creating a vserver.

With a global namespace configuration:  One vserver can process
requests for multiple, diverse core filers  Clients see a virtual
filesystem defined by the cluster administrator

In a simple namespace configuration:  One vserver is mapped to each
core filer  The vserver shows clients the exact same directory
structure that exists on the core filer

Read

Using a Global Namespace

 to learn more about GNS and how to set it up.

The VServer section of the Avere Control Panel includes settings for
configuring how your cluster handles requests. The pages in this
section allow you to create or delete vservers, to configure namespace
structure and IP addresses, to control client access to back-end
storage volumes, and configure other tasks.

VServer Configuration Pages

This section gives an overview of the settings available in each page
of the

VServer

 section. Click the link to see page screenshots and details about
using the settings.

Manage VServers

 - Lists all vservers available to your cluster and allows you to
create, suspend, or remove vservers

VServer Details

 - Shows details for one vserver and allows you to edit the name,
change hot client settings, and change client suspend type settings

Client Facing Network

 - Lets you set the IP address range for your vserver and optionally
configure home nodes if you want an IP address to be assigned to a
particular cluster node.

Namespace

 - This page shows junctions, which map exports on the backend core
filers to client-facing directories in the global namespace. This page
includes controls for modifying, adding, suspending, and deleting
namespace junctions.

Export Policies

 - This page lets you assign access control policies to the exports on
a selected core filer. Export policies control client access to core
filer exports. For each export, you can select one of the policies
that exists on your cluster. Define new policies in the Export Rules
page (described below, and also linked from a button on this page).
Read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

 for more information about how to create and apply export policies.

Export Rules

 - This page allows you to create or modify export policies, which
control client access to files on the core filer exports. Choose a
policy to see the rules that it includes. Create a new policy, or add
or modify rules in an existing policy. This page also allows you to
test how a policy affects a particular client. Read

Controlling Access to Core Filer Exports

 for more information about how to create and apply export policies.

NFS

 - This page lets you enable Kerberos and turn on extended groups for
a vserver. You also can configure the Kerberos service key management
file that the vserver uses when connecting with clients. Note that
Kerberos must also be

configured

 in the Cluster section (

Cluster > Kerberos

) before you can turn it on.

CIFS

 - On this page you can configure CIFS and SMB2 for your vserver. This
page shows the AD domain and current status and settings for your
CIFS/SMB server, and lets you enable or disable Native Identity. Use
the CIFS settings page in combination with the CIFS Shares page to set
up the Avere cluster to allow Windows clients to access core filer
resources. Additional configuration is necessary outside of the
cluster Avere Control Panel; read

Configuring SMB Access

 or contact Avere Global Services to learn more.

CIFS Shares

 - This page allows you to map core filer exports to NTFS directories
so that they can be accessed by Windows clients.


Managing Core Filers

Core Filers are the back-end storage component of an Avere Edge Filer.

Core filers typically are either a NAS storage appliance or a cloud
object store, but they also can be a clustered filesystem or other
arrangement that meets these requirements:

Serves NFS client requests over NFSv3

Exposes data over NFS exports

An Avere cluster can serve as the front end for up to 50 core filers.
(Some limitations exist involving the combined number of vservers,
exports, and core filers; contact Avere Global Services for details.)
Each core filer is treated as a single dataset by the Avere cluster.

Each core filer in the system has an administrative name that is used
for quick identification. This name does not have to be the same as
its network name - for example, a core filer with the domain name
filer1.example.com could be named filer1 in the system.

Note: Earlier versions of Avere OS used the term

  mass

   instead of core filer to refer to back-end storage volumes. Some
  API commands and log messages still refer to core filers as

  masses

  .

You can monitor core filer status by using the Core Filers tab on the

dashboard

.

Use the Core Filer section of the Avere Control Panel Settings tab to
create and configure core filers for your cluster.

Core Filer Configuration Settings

Settings in the Core Filer section allow you to configure how your
Avere cluster uses back-end storage.

Manage Core Filers

 - This page lists all core filers configured for the cluster. From
this page, you can add a new core filer, permanently delete a core
filer, temporarily suspend a core filer, or invalidate cached data
from a particular core filer.

Core Filer Details

 - This page lets you change the configuration of one selected core
filer. You can switch the cache policy, edit the filer name, security
and credentials settings, and some network settings.

Cloud Encryption Settings

 - For a cloud core filer that uses data encryption, this page allows
you to configure encryption settings and key files. You can change the
encryption key storage method, download recovery files, and change the
master encryption key for the cloud server. Note that encryption can
only be enabled or disabled when the cloud core filer is added to the
cluster; you cannot change the setting later.

Cloud Snapshots

 - This page shows snapshots that the Avere cluster has created for
cloud core filers. From this page, you can create a manual snapshot of
a cloud core filer or work with existing snapshots. To set up a
recurring snapshot, use the Snapshot Policies page described below.

Cloud Snapshot Policies

 - This settings page is used to enable and manage snapshots, which
are brief metadata backups that show file contents at a particular
point in time. Snapshots can be used in combination with full backups
for data recovery.

Snapshots for NAS core filers are managed on those systems and are not
part of Avere cluster configuration.

Manage Cache Policies

 - The Manage Cache Policies page lets you create custom caching
policies for your cluster. Avere OS comes preconfigured with five
basic cache policies that apply to common situations; you can use one
of these as a starting point to create your own custom policy.

Cache policies are applied to core filers in the Core Filer Details
page.


Cluster Settings Overview

The Cluster section of the Settings tab includes tools for cluster
configuration, node management, and configuring network and
authorization infrastructure, among other features.

Cluster Settings Pages

Read the linked documents for more information about the settings
included on each page.

General Setup

 - The General Setup page in the cluster section includes controls for
cluster-wide features. This page includes controls for the following
actions:

Change the cluster name

Set the prefix and numbering used for node names

Enable advanced networking (this feature is enabled by default on new
systems)

Set the VLAN that the cluster uses for Internet access

Enable or disable FIPS Mode

Choose a web proxy configuration

Choose a link aggregation style or disable link aggregation

Adminstrative Network

 - The Administrative Network page is used to configure basic settings
for the administrative (management) network. These settings include
DNS configuration, NTP servers, and (optional) defining a reserved
range of IP addresses to use for management traffic.

Cluster Networks

 - On the Cluster Networks page you can create and customize networks.
This page allows you to set address ranges for cluster networks and
designate VLANs to use for the traffic on those IP addresses.

Proxy Configuration

 - If you send traffic over a web proxy to external resources, use the
Proxy Configuration page to set up the proxy configurations. (Proxy
configurations can be applied cluster-wide on the

Cluster > General Setup

 page and to core filers from their

Core Filer > Core Filer Details

 pages.)

FXT Nodes

 - This page lists nodes in the cluster, as well as nodes that are in
the network but not yet part of the cluster.  You can perform basic
node management tasks like rebooting or removing nodes.  The FXT Nodes
page also has a link to the Node Details page, which shows more
information and configuration options related to one individual node.

Node Details

 - The Node Details page gives hardware information (if applicable),
performance statistics, and other configuration details. A diagram is
included for physical nodes, and you can interact with the diagram to
identify and troubleshoot individual drives. This page also allows you
to modify the node name and individual IPMI configuration.

The Node Details page does not appear in the sidebar; access it from
the links in the FXT Nodes or IPMI page.

High Availability

 - The High Availability page is used to turn on or off the HA
feature, which mirrors cached data on additional cluster nodes.

Monitoring

 - Use the Monitoring page to configure external notifications about
cluster alerts.

Schedules

 - The Schedules page lets you configure repeating schedules for use
with the Write-Through Scheduling feature in core filer cache
policies. The schedules defined here can be used in cache policies to
guarantee that all content is synchronized to the back-end core filer
at specific times (for example, before a core filer backup or
snapshot).

Directory Services

 - On the Directory Services page, you can configure the source of
user and group names (choices include LDAP/AD servers, NIS, or file
options).

Kerberos

 - This page is used to set up Kerberos-based authentication for the
cluster.

IPMI

 - The IPMI page allows you to set how IPMI cards in the cluster's FXT
nodes obtain IP addresses.

Support

 settings page - Information on the Support settings page controls how
Avere Global Services receives information about this cluster.

Licenses

 - This page shows installed feature licenses and includes tools for
adding or removing them.

Cloud Credentials

 - The Cloud Credentials page stores access keys that the cluster uses
when communicating with cloud core filers or vFXT nodes.

Certificates

 - This page is used to configure X.509 certificates for KMIP servers.
KMIP allows administrators to use a separate key manager instead of
using the key storage system built in to Avere OS for encrypting
traffic to and from cloud core filers.

KMIP Servers

 - This page allows you to define KMIP servers, which manage
encryption keys used for cloud core filers.

VLAN

 - Use the VLAN page to configure and define individual virtual
networks for the cluster.

The VLAN page also includes a section for creating Static Routes.


Administration Settings Overview

Pages in the Administration section can be used to reboot the cluster
or individual nodes, update cluster software, manage administrative
user accounts, and monitor hidden alerts from the dashboard. (Read

Monitoring the Cluster with the Avere Control Panel Dashboard

 to learn more about system alerts.)

Administration Settings Pages

System Maintenance

 - The System Maintenance page has controls for rebooting the cluster
or restarting node services; suspending client access, and controlling
cached data.

Software Update

 - Use the Software Update page to download and install new Avere OS
distributions or switch between software releases.

Users

 - The Users settings page allows you to create individual login
credentials for Avere Control Panel users.

Login Services

 - Use the Login Services page to configure LDAP or file-based user
information for logging in to the Avere Control Panel.

Hidden Alerts

 - The Hidden Alerts page shows hidden and auto-dismissed alerts and
conditions from the Dashboard tab.

