Appendix F: Configuring Active Directory for Avere SMB

Deploying an Avere Edge Filer that uses SMB requires a small amount of
Active Directory configuration. This configuration ensures continuous
secure operation as the highly available Avere cluster is inserted
into your environment.

Note: These instructions assume the customer is using NTFS security
  on their shares.  If only POSIX mode bits are used, then much of
  this setup may be bypassed.


In the pre-Avere environment, clients access shares directly on core
filers. All authentication is between clients and/or core filers
within the Active Directory environment.


After adding the Avere Edge Filer, each SMB-enabled vserver in the
Avere cluster must make ACL requests to the core filer on behalf of
authenticated clients’ identities, and is enabled to do so via
Kerberos configuration. This is known as delegation, and should be
configured against only necessary services (SMB) on the core filer,
which is known as

constrained delegation

.

Constrained delegation gives administrators the ability to specify and
enforce application trust boundaries by limiting the scope where
application services on the cluster vserver can act on a user’s
behalf. This flexibility to constrain a service’s authorization rights
helps improve application security by reducing the opportunities for
compromise by untrusted services.

These are mandatory configuration items for NTFS Security Style
Shares.

Active Directory Setup Checklist

Windows Server Requirements  Must be running Windows Server 2003 or
later in Native Mode.

Machine Accounts for each VServer  Each vserver will require a machine
account.  An AD administrator with rights to add machine accounts, or
an AD user account with sufficient permissions to add computers to the
domain, is required.  The machine account is placed in the Computers
OU by default. Ensure this step is done during the addition of the
machine accounts rather than trying to move them after creation.  To
use a nondefault OU, access the VServer > CIFS page for the vserver
and set the Organizational Unit field.

Client Access  VServer IP Addresses must be added as round-robin DNS
(RRDNS) entries.  Each vserver has a range of IP addresses associated
with it. These addresses are used for name resolution and SMB/CIFS
share access. Each IP address must be added to the vserver hostname in
DNS. This ensures round-robin resolution across all client-facing
addresses.  Refer to Configuring DNS for the Avere Cluster for more
information about using RRDNS.

Name Resolution  Core Filer/Client DNS fully qualified domain names
(FQDN)  The Avere cluster must be able to resolve the core filer DNS
fully qualified domain name (FQDN). Clients must be able to resolve
the vserver FQDN consistently as well.  If you are operating more than
one DNS environment, both environments must resolve the names.  Core
Filer Machine Account Service Principal Name (SPN)  The vserver
machine account must be able to request and obtain kerberos tickets
for the SMB service using the core filer FQDN server name (as
configured in the FXT UI) as the kerberos principal. Therefore, the
core filer machine account SPN name must match the fully qualified
domain name.

Domains  The vserver machine and core filer machine accounts must be
in the same Active Directory domain.

AD User/Group Attributes  The Avere cluster uses additional user and
group attributes to process client requests.  These are the UID and
GID information.  The attributes may be mapped to AD Users and Groups
in two ways.  In Active Directory (recommended)  You may configure
each user/group who require access. Use ADSI Edit to modify.  In a
Flat File  You may enter mappings of Windows users to UIDs and GIDs,
and store that file on the FXT Cluster.

Setup Steps

These are the basic steps for setting up Active Directory to work with
your Avere cluster.

1. Set SPN (Service Principal Name)

The Service Principal Name (SPN) allows Kerberos tickets to be
obtained for the SMB service on the core filer. A Service Principal
Name must be configured for the core filer’s SMB Machine Account. This
SPN is required for Kerberos constrained delegation.

To check if an SPN exists for SMB, open a command prompt on the AD
server and run "setspn –l <NetBIOS>" (example:  "setspn –l netappsvr")
to list the service principals.:

   C:\Users\Administrator> setspn -l grape
   Registered ServicePrincipalNames for CN=GRAPE,CN=Comp
           cifs/grape.dev.cc.arr.com
           nfs/grape.dev.cc.arr.com
           HOST/grape.dev.cc.arr.com

If the SPN does not exist for SMB and the FQDN, it must be added.

To add an SMB SPN, run: "setspn –A cifs/<core filer FQDN> <core filer
NetBIOS>"

Example: "setspn –A cifs/netappsvr.ar.com netappsvr"

2.  Configure Kerberos Constrained Delegation

These steps must be performed on the Active Directory server by a user
with administrative privileges.

From the Start menu, open Active Directory Users and Computers. (This
option appears under the Administrative Tools section.)

In the left-hand pane, expand Network and find the vserver machine
account in the OU that it was joined to (usually “Computers”).

In the right-hand pane, right click on the vserver’s machine account
object and select Properties.


Select the Delegation tab.

Select Trust this computer for delegation to specified services only.

Select Use any authentication protocol.

Select Add.


In the Add Services dialog, click the Users or Computers button.


Type the core filer’s machine account name and click the Check Names
button.

Select the name of the core filer from the list and click OK.


The Add Services dialog appears again.

Select the "CIFS" service type for the core filer’s machine account.


Click OK.

3. Assign User and Group Attributes with ADSI Edit

The Avere cluster uses specific user attributes for NFS operations.

If your organization is using AD for LDAP:

The easiest way to set the gidNumber and uidNumber attributes is to
use ADSI Edit on the Active Directory server running adsiedit.msc.

Set the user’s gidNumber attribute to match the “Domain Users”
gidNumber.  In ADSI Edit, right click CN=Domain Users & choose
Properties.  Find the attribute “gidNumber”.  If the value is “<not
set>,” we recommend setting it to a unique number between 10000 and
65000 by clicking Edit, clicking in the Value field, typing the
number, and clicking OK. If the value is set, copy it.  Click OK and
close the Domain Users Properties dialog box.  Domain Users Properties
dialog  Right click the entry for the desired user and choose
Properties.  Click the gidNumber attribute.  Click the Edit button.
edit dialog  For the value, paste or type the gidNumber as taken from
the gidNumber of “Domain Users” and then click OK.  editing the GID
number

Set the uidNumber attribute.  Avere Systems recommends a number
between 10000 and 65000.  While in the ADSI Edit user properties, find
and click the uidNumber attribute.  Click the Edit button.  Click in
the Value field.  Enter a unique number between 10000 and 65000.
Click OK on the right.  Click OK on the bottom to commit attribute
changes (gidNumber and uidNumber).


For SMB client access, users are authenticated by their Windows
credentials but authorized based on their UNIX credentials. This is
required because the Avere cluster uses NFSv3 for the datapath to the
core filer. For this reason, we require that users and groups have
rfc2307 attributes in order to facilitate this.

A summary of required attributes are as follows:

User Attributes:

      User Attribute  Description  Avere Cluster Use  sAMAccountName
SMB username  Required. Automatically maintained by AD  uid  NFS
username  If left blank (recommended), defaults to sAMAaccountName
uidNumber  NFS userid  Required. Unique value must be assigned by
admin  gidNumber  NFS primary groupid  Required. Value must be
assigned by admin.  Typically set to Domain Users gidNumber

Group Attributes:

      Group Attribute  Description  Avere Cluster Use  cn  used as NFS
groupname  Required.  Automatically maintained by AD  gidNumber  NFS
groupid  Required.  Unique value must be assigned by admin  memberUid
member NFS usernames  optional for AD groups  required for NFS groups
when the core filer  security style is posix mode bits and ad users
are  members of nfs groups

In order to successfully evaluate the entries on a core filer Access
Control List (ACL), we need to be able to map a user and group
Security ID (SID) to the corresponding UNIX credential.

To accomplish this, in addition to Active Directory for user
authentication and SID-to-username translation, we also require a
Directory Service as a source of these attributes. This can be NIS,
LDAP, or a flat file, whichever is the authoritative source of these
attributes in your environment. If there are multiple sources, we
should use the same source that the core filer is using as it will
also need to reverse translate from UNIX credential to Windows SID.

If there is not an authoritative source of these attributes, a flat
file can be generated to provide these values. Alternatively, these
can be populated in Active Directory via ADSIEdit. Active Directory
can then be configured as the Directory Service via LDAP.

The LDAP Server can be in a comma-separated list of servers. The BASE
DN will match the LDAP DN of the domain.

Flat File Format

User (/etc/passwd format)

Format: "<uid>:*:<uidNumber>:<gidNumber>:::"

Example: "avereuser:*:11111:10000:::"

Group (/etc/group format)

Format: "<cn>:*:<gidNumber>:<memberUid>,<memberUid>"

Example: "Domain Users:*:10000:avereuser,devuser1"
